




             Personal
             Deposit Account
             Agreement





             This is an important document. It contains the contract governing
             your deposit relationship with the Bank and required legal
             disclosures. Please have it translated.
             Éste es un documento importante.Contiene el contrato que
             gobierna su relación de depósitos con el Banco y declaraciones
             requeridas por ley.Por favor, mande a hacer la traducción de
             este documento.
             Ce document est important.Il contient le contrat éxecutant votre
             rapport de versement avec la Banque et les publications légales.
             Veuillez le faire traduire s’il-vous-plaît.
             Este é um documento importante.Ele contém o contrato que
             governa a sua relação de depósitos com o banco e declarações
             requeridas por lei.Por favor traduza.





             Welcome to TD Bank,
             America’s Most
             Convenient Bank®
             We are pleased to offer you this Personal Deposit Account
             Agreement (“Agreement”) that governs the terms and conditions
             of your personal deposit account(s) with us. This Agreement
             consists of Parts I-VI below, as well as the Rate Sheet(s), Personal
             Fee Schedule(s) and Account Maintenance Information grid(s)
             published by the Bank from time to time. This Agreement
             provides you with information you will want to know about
             your personal deposit account(s). If you have any questions, or
             would like to learn more about our personal deposit account
             products and services, please contact any of our Stores or call us
             at 1-888-751-9000. We will be happy to assist you.



             Topic                                                  Starts at Page #

             Part I:
             Personal Deposit Account Terms and Conditions .....................2


             Part II:
             Truth in Savings Disclosure ................................................25


             Part III:
             Funds Availability Policy ....................................................34


             Part IV:
             Electronic Funds Transfers Disclosure................................38


             Part V:
             Substitute Check Disclosure ...............................................46


             Part VI:
             Night Depository Agreement ............................................47




                                                    1





             Definitions
             Throughout this Agreement, unless otherwise indicated, the
             following words have the meanings given to them below:
             a) “Account” means your Checking Account, Money Market
                Account, personal CD Account and/or Savings Account with
                us, as applicable, unless limited by the heading under which
                it appears.
             b) “Business Day” means every day, except Saturdays, Sundays,
                and federal holidays.
             c) “Calendar Day” means every day, including Saturdays,
                Sundays, and federal holidays.
             d) “Bank,” “we,” “us,” “our” and “TD Bank” refer to
                TD Bank, N.A.
             e) “You” and “your” mean each depositor who opens an
                Account, and any joint owner of each Account.
             f)   “Store” means a branch office.

             Part I: Personal Deposit Account Terms
             and Conditions
             By opening and maintaining an Account with the Bank, you
             agree to the provisions of this Agreement, so you should read this
             Agreement thoroughly and keep it with other important records.
             From time to time, we may offer new types of Accounts and may
             cease offering some types of Accounts. This Agreement governs
             all of these new types of Accounts, and continues to govern any
             Accounts you may have that we no longer offer. If and to the
             extent the provisions of this Agreement vary from the provisions
             of the Uniform Commercial Code as adopted in the jurisdiction
             where your Account was opened, the terms and conditions of
             this Agreement shall control.
             This Agreement includes your promise to pay the charges listed on
             the Personal Fee Schedule and Account Maintenance Information
             grid and your permission for us to deduct these charges, as
             earned, directly from your Account. You also agree to pay any
             additional reasonable charges we may impose for services you
             request which are not contemplated by this Agreement but are
             disclosed in our Personal Fee Schedule which may be amended
             from time to time. Each of you agrees to be jointly and severally
             liable for any Account deficit resulting from charges or overdrafts,
             whether caused by you or another authorized to withdraw from
             your Account, together with the costs we incur to collect the
             deficit, including, to the extent permitted by law, our reasonable
             attorneys’ fees.
             You agree to use the Account only for lawful purposes, and you
             acknowledge and agree that “restricted transactions” as defined
             in the Unlawful Internet Gambling Enforcement Act of 2006
             and Regulation GG issued thereunder are prohibited from being
             processed through your Account or any relationship between

                                              2





             you and the Bank. In the event we identify a suspected restricted
             transaction, we may block or otherwise prevent or prohibit such
             transaction; and further, we may deny services to you, close the
             Account, or end the relationship. However, in the event that a
             charge or transaction described in this disclosure is approved and
             processed, you will still be liable for the charge.

             Important Information about Procedures for
             Opening a New Account
             To help the government fight the funding of terrorism and money
             laundering activities, Federal law requires all financial institutions
             to obtain, verify and record information that identifies each person
             who opens an account. When you open an Account, we will ask
             for your name, legal address, date of birth, Social Security or Tax
             Identification Number, and other information that will allow us
             to identify you. We may also ask to see your driver’s license or
             any other identifying documents.

             Telephone Numbers
             If you give a cell phone number directly to us, you consent
             to and agree to accept calls to your cell phone from us and
             our agents. For any telephone or cell phone calls placed to
             you by us or our agents, you consent and agree that those
             calls may be automatically dialed and/or may consist of
             pre-recorded messages.

             Account Ownership
             The following provisions explain the rules applicable to your
             Account depending on the form of ownership specified on the
             signature card. Only the portion corresponding to the form of
             ownership specified will apply.

             Individual Account
             An individual Account is issued to one person who does not intend
             (merely by opening the Account) to create any survivorship rights
             for any other person.

             Joint Account – With Right of Survivorship
             A joint Account is issued in the name of two or more persons. If
             more than one of you opens an Account and signs a signature
             card as a co-owner of the Account, the Account is a joint Account
             with right of survivorship. Each of you intends that, upon your
             death, the balance in the Account (subject to any previous pledge
             to which we have consented) will belong to the survivor(s), and we
             may continue to honor checks or orders drawn by, or withdrawal
             requests from, the survivor(s) after the death of any owner(s).
             If two or more of you survive, you will own the balance in the
             Account as joint tenants with right of survivorship. The following
             rules apply to all joint Accounts: (i) Deposits: All deposits are the
             property of all of the owners of the Account. Each owner of a
             joint Account agrees that we may credit to the joint Account any

                                               3





             check or other item which is payable to the order of any one or
             more of you, even if the check or other item is endorsed by less
             than all or none of you. We may supply endorsements as allowed
             by law on checks or other items that you deposit to the Account.
             For certain checks, such as those payable by the government, we
             may require all payees to endorse the check for deposit. (ii) Orders:
             The Bank may release all or any part of the balance of the Account
             to honor checks, withdrawals, orders, or requests signed by any
             owner of the Account. Any one of you may close the Account.
             We may be required by service of legal process to hold or remit
             funds held in a joint Account to satisfy an attachment or judgment
             entered against, or other valid debt incurred by, any owner of
             the Account. None of you may instruct us to take away any of
             the rights of another. If there is a dispute among you, you must
             resolve it yourselves and the Bank does not have to recognize
             that dispute in the absence of any valid court order. Unless we
             receive written notice signed by any owner not to pay any joint
             deposit, we shall not be liable to any owner for continuing to
             honor checks or other orders drawn by, or withdrawal requests
             from, any owner; after receipt of any such written notice, we shall
             not be liable to any owner for refusing to pay any checks or honor
             any orders and we may require the written authorization of any
             or all owners for any further payments. (iii) Liability: Co-owners of
             a joint Account are jointly and severally liable for activity on this
             Account. In the event of any overdrafts on a joint Account, the
             joint owners agree that each owner shall be jointly and severally
             liable for the overdrafts in the joint Account, whether or not any
             particular owner: (a) created the overdraft, (b) had knowledge of
             the overdraft, (c) was involved in or participated in activity in the
             Account, or (d) derived any benefit from the overdraft.

             No Two-Signer Accounts
             We do not offer accounts on which two or more signatures
             are required for a check or other withdrawal. Notwithstanding
             any provisions to the contrary on any signature card or other
             agreement you have with us, you agree that if any Account
             purports to require two or more signers on items drawn on or
             withdrawals from the Account, such provision is solely for your
             internal control purposes and is not binding on us. If more than
             one person is authorized to write checks or draw items on your
             Account, you agree that we can honor checks signed by any
             Authorized Signer, even if there are two or more lines on the items
             for your signature and two signatures are required.

             Trust Accounts
             (i) Unwritten: If your Account is designated as a trust Account,
                 in the absence of any written trust agreement provided to
                 us at Account opening, this Account is deemed a Revocable
                 Unwritten Trust, and you as trustee may withdraw all of the
                 funds during your lifetime. In the event of your death, the

                                              4





                 Account will belong to the person you named as Account
                 beneficiary, if that person is still living. That Account
                 beneficiary would have the sole right to withdraw the funds
                 in the Account at anytime after your death (although the Bank
                 may be entitled under applicable law to place a hold on the
                 funds before payment to the beneficiary), but not before.
             (ii) Written: If you have opened the Account as trustee of
                  a written trust or as trustee pursuant to court order, only
                  the trustee will be allowed to withdraw funds or otherwise
                  transact business on the Account as designated by the trust
                  instrument or court order. We can request a certified copy
                  of any trust instrument or court order, but whether or not a
                  copy is filed with us, we will not be held responsible or liable
                  to any of the written trust’s beneficiaries for the trustee’s
                  actions. Beneficiaries acquire the right to withdraw only as
                  provided in the trust instrument or court order.
             The person(s) creating either of these Trust Account types
             may make changes to the Account, including changes to the
             beneficiaries or the Account type, and may withdraw funds on
             deposit in the Account, only as permitted by the trust instrument
             or court order.
             Some jurisdictions have specific laws governing other specific
             types of fiduciary Accounts. If you establish one of these types
             of Accounts, you agree to comply with all of the laws applicable
             to such types of Accounts.
             With all fiduciary and custody Accounts, regardless of whether
             a written trust instrument has been provided to us, the owners
             and beneficiaries of the Account agree that we will not be
             liable if the trustee or custodian commits a breach of trust or
             breach of fiduciary duty, or fails to comply with the terms of
             a written trust agreement or comply with applicable law. We
             are not responsible for enforcing the terms of any written trust
             agreement or applicable law against the trustee or custodian,
             and can rely on the genuineness of any document delivered
             to us, and the truthfulness of any statement made to us, by a
             trustee or custodian.

             Uniform Gifts/Transfers To Minors Act Account
             If your Account is opened under the Uniform Transfers to Minors
             Act or Uniform Gifts to Minors Act, the funds in the Account
             belong to the minor [depending on the jurisdiction in which you
             have opened such an Account and the circumstances, a minor
             may be a child under the age of eighteen (18) or under the age
             of twenty-one (21)] you have named. You must provide to us
             the minor’s Social Security Number. You, as custodian, or the
             custodian you have named, may withdraw all of the funds in the
             Account at any time for the benefit of the minor you have named.
             Our contractual obligation to honor checks, orders, withdrawals
             or other requests related to the Account is with the custodian

                                              5





             only. In the event of the custodian’s death, the person named as
             successor custodian (as provided by law) will succeed to these
             rights. When the minor reaches the age of majority applicable in
             his or her jurisdiction, or at another time determined by applicable
             law, the custodian shall transfer any funds remaining in the
             Account to the minor or to the minor’s estate.

             Deposit Policy
             We will usually give you provisional credit for items deposited
             into your Account. However, we may delay or refuse to give you
             provisional credit if we believe in our discretion that your item
             will not be paid. We will reverse any provisional credit we have
             given for an item deposited into your Account if we do not receive
             final credit for that item and charge you a fee (see Personal Fee
             Schedule). If the reversal of a provisional credit creates an overdraft
             in your Account, you will owe us the amount of the overdraft, plus
             any overdraft fees (see Personal Fee Schedule). We will determine
             when final credit is received for any item. Please read the Funds
             Availability Policy for a detailed discussion of how and when we
             make funds available to you.
             We will accept certain items like foreign checks and bond coupons
             for collection only. You may also ask us to accept certain other
             items for collection only. You will not receive credit for (provisional
             or otherwise), and may not withdraw funds against, any of these
             items until we receive final credit from the person responsible for
             paying them. Items sent for collection will be credited to your
             Account in U.S. dollars, with the amount of U.S. dollars credited
             calculated using our applicable exchange rate that is in effect
             on the date when we credit the funds to your Account and not
             when the deposit is made. The Funds Availability Policy does
             not apply to items we have accepted for collection only. If and
             when we receive final credit for an item we have accepted for
             collection only, you agree that we may subtract our collection
             fee (see Personal Fee Schedule) from the amount finally credited
             to us, before we credit your Account for the remaining amount.

             Returned Checks/Waiver of Rights
             If you deposit a check or item in your Account that the drawee
             bank returns unpaid for any reason (called “dishonor”), we may
             put the check or item through for collection again. This means
             that you are waiving your right to receive immediate notice of
             dishonor. If the check or item is dishonored for any reason, the
             amount of the dishonored check or item will be deducted from
             your Account. You agree to pay the Bank a fee for any such
             check or item that is dishonored (see Personal Fee Schedule). The
             Bank may also collect any amounts due to the Bank because of
             returned checks, through the right of set-off, from any other of
             your Accounts at the Bank, or collect the funds directly from you.




                                               6





             Cashing of Checks
             Typically, the Bank will cash checks drawn on other banks
             for its customers who have adequate available funds in their
             Account(s). If any such check should be returned by the
             paying bank for any reason, the Bank will charge you a fee
             (see Personal Fee Schedule). In addition, the Bank will debit
             the amount of the returned check from your Account(s).
             If the debit creates an overdraft in your Account, you will
             owe us the amount of the overdraft plus any overdraft fees
             (see Personal Fee Schedule).

             Withdrawal Policy
             Passbook Account (if available in your jurisdiction) withdrawals
             can be made by an authorized signer only upon presentation
             of the passbook, either in person or accompanied by a written
             order of withdrawal. If you lose the passbook, we require that a
             Lost Passbook Affidavit be signed by ALL persons named on the
             Account before a notary public.
             Statement Savings Account withdrawals can be made per written
             order of withdrawal in accordance with the information contained
             on the signature card and may also be made with an ATM or
             Visa® Debit Card, as applicable. The Bank may refuse a request
             if any document or identification required by the Bank or law in
             connection with the withdrawal has not been presented.
             The Bank reserves the right to require seven (7) Calendar Days’
             written notice prior to withdrawal or transfer of funds from all
             Savings or Money Market Accounts offered by the Bank.
             For any Statement Savings Account(s) (including Money Market
             Accounts), you may make as many in-person withdrawals at
             a teller window or any ATM as you wish. However, federal
             regulations permit the depositor to make no more than a
             combined total of six (6) pre-authorized, automatic, electronic
             (including computer initiated), telephone withdrawals or transfers,
             or payments by check, draft, debit card, or similar order payable
             to third parties in any monthly period (based on your statement
             date). We may impose a fee, as disclosed on the Personal Fee
             Schedule, for each such withdrawal in excess of six (6) that you
             make in any monthly period (based on your statement date).
             These fees will be reflected in your monthly statement. In addition,
             repeated violations will result in the Account being closed or
             changed from a savings type Account to a transaction Account.
             For Holiday Club and Club Saver Accounts, we may impose a fee,
             as disclosed on the Personal Fee Schedule, for each withdrawal in
             excess of three (3) that you make in any calendar month. Holiday
             Club and Club Saver Accounts are not available for sale in the
             State of Maryland.




                                              7





             Demand Deposit Accounts and Sub-Accounts
             All Checking Accounts consist of two separate sub-accounts: a
             transaction sub-account, and a non-transaction sub-account.
             Whenever your transaction sub-account balance exceeds a certain
             level (which we may set and change at our discretion without
             notice to you), funds above that level may be transferred from
             the transaction sub-account to the non-transaction sub-account
             at the Bank’s discretion, as often as once each day. All of your
             Checking Account transactions are posted to the transaction
             sub-account. Balances transferred to the non-transaction sub-
             account are transferred back to the transaction sub-account to
             meet these transactional needs, so there is no adverse impact on
             the availability of the balances held in your Checking Account.
             In accordance with federal limitations, no more than six (6)
             transfers from the non-transaction sub-account can occur during
             any statement cycle. Therefore, if a sixth transfer is needed, we
             will return all balances to the transaction sub-account for the
             remainder of the statement cycle.
             These sub-accounts are treated as a single Checking Account for
             purposes of deposits and withdrawals, access and information,
             statement reporting, and any fees or charges. There are no
             separate or additional balance requirements, fees, or charges
             associated with the creation of these sub-accounts. If your
             Checking Account is a non-interest bearing Account, neither the
             transaction sub-account nor the non-transaction sub-account
             receives any interest. If your Checking Account is an interest-
             bearing Checking Account, both the transaction sub-account and
             the non-transaction sub-account receive the same interest rate at
             all times, and your periodic statement will reflect a single blended
             Annual Percentage Yield (“APY”) and APY Earned.
             In accordance with federal regulations, we reserve the right to
             require seven (7) Calendar Days advance notice of withdrawals
             from interest-bearing transaction sub-accounts and all non-
             transaction sub-accounts. While the Bank is required to reserve
             this right, the Bank does not presently exercise this right.

             Certified Taxpayer Identification Number (“TIN”) or
             Social Security Number (“SSN”)
             Federal law requires you to provide to the Bank a valid and
             certified Taxpayer Identification Number (“TIN”) or Social Security
             Number (“SSN”). We may be required by federal or state law to
             withhold a portion of the interest credited to your Account in
             the following circumstances:
             (a) you do not give us a correct TIN or SSN;
             (b) the IRS tells us that you gave us an incorrect TIN or SSN;
             (c) the IRS tells you that you are subject to backup withholding
                 because you have under-reported your interest or other
                 income;


                                              8





             (d) you fail to certify to us that you are not subject to backup
                 withholding;
             (e) you do not certify your TIN or SSN to us; or
             (f) there may be other reasons why we may be required to do
                 so under applicable law.
             If we do this, the amount we withhold will be reported to you
             and the IRS and applied by the IRS to the payment of any Federal
             income tax you may owe for that year.

             Credit Verification and
             Obtaining Financial Information
             You agree that we may verify credit and employment
             history through third parties, including but not limited
             to consumer reporting agencies, or verify any previous
             banking relationships of yours for any Accounts you
             have with the Bank now or in the future. If an Account is
             declined based on adverse information, you may request from the
             consumer reporting agency a copy of the information supplied
             to us. Additionally, if your Account is closed for insufficient funds
             activity or other negative reason, a report may be made by us to
             one or more consumer reporting agencies or other third parties
             if permitted by applicable law. Please notify us if you have a
             dispute or if you have questions regarding the information we
             provide. Write to us at: TD Bank Overdraft Collections, Mailstop
             ME02-002-036, P.O. Box 9547, Portland, ME 04112. Please
             provide your name, Account number, and why you believe there
             is an inaccuracy or describe the item you are not sure about. We
             will complete any investigation and notify you of our findings
             and, if necessary, corrections. Please note that calling us will not
             preserve your rights.
             If you are a licensed attorney, you agree that we may report
             information about overdrafts on and/or returned checks drawn
             on Accounts which you maintain as trustee for the benefit of
             another person or in any fiduciary capacity, to the extent and in
             the manner required by applicable laws, rules, or regulations. You
             agree that we have no liability to you for reporting any information
             to applicable authorities regarding any Account which we believe
             in good faith is subject to such laws, rules, or regulations.

             Periodic Statement; Limitation on Time to Report
             Forgeries and Errors
             If your Account is not a Holiday Club, Club Saver, IRA, Passbook or
             CD Account, the Bank will provide you with a periodic statement.
             Unless you tell us of a change of address, we will continue to mail
             statements or any other notices to your address as it appears on
             our records and you will be considered to have received those
             statements and any other notices sent to you at that address. We
             do not have to send you a statement or notice if (i) you do not
             claim your statement, (ii) we cannot deliver your statement or


                                              9





             notice because of your instructions or your failure to tell us that
             you have changed your address, or (iii) we determine that your
             Account has been inactive for more than one year.
             You should review your statements and balance your Account
             promptly after you receive them or, if we are holding them for
             you, promptly after we make them available to you. If you don’t
             receive an Account statement by the date when you usually
             receive it, call us at once. You must review your statements to
             make sure that there are no errors in the Account information.
             On Accounts with check-writing privileges, you must review your
             statement and imaged copies of paid checks, if any, we send you
             and report forgeries, alterations, missing signatures, amounts
             differing from your records, or other information that might lead
             you to conclude that the check was forged or that, when we paid
             the check, the proper amount was not paid to the proper person.
             You have this duty even if we do not return checks to you or we
             return only an image of the check. You should notify us as soon
             as possible if you think there is a problem.
             Applicable law and this Agreement require you to discover and
             report any error in payment of a check within specified time
             periods. You agree that statements and any images of paid checks
             accompanying the statement shall be deemed to be “available”
             to you as of the statement mailing date. If we are holding your
             Account statements for you at your request, the statements
             become “available” on the day they are available for you to
             pick up. This means, for example, that the period in which you
             must report any problem with an Account begins on the day we
             make the statement available, even if you do not pick up the
             statement until later.
             If you assert against us a claim that an item was not properly
             payable because, for example, the item was forged or an
             endorsement was forged, you must cooperate with us and
             assist us in seeking criminal and civil penalties against the
             person responsible. You must file reports and complaints with
             the appropriate law enforcement authorities. If we ask, you
             also must give us a statement, under oath, about the facts and
             circumstances relating to your claim. If you fail or refuse to do
             these things, we will consider that you have ratified the defect
             in the item and agree that we may charge the full amount of the
             item to your Account.
             You must notify us as soon as possible if you believe there
             is an error, forgery or other problem with the information
             shown on your Account statement. You agree that fourteen
             (14) Calendar Days after we mailed a statement (or
             otherwise made it available to you) is a reasonable amount
             of time for you to review your Account statement and
             report any errors, forgeries or other problems. In addition,
             you agree not to assert a claim against us concerning any
             error, forgery or other problem relating to a matter shown

                                             10





             on an Account statement unless you notified us of the error,
             forgery or other problem within thirty (30) Calendar Days
             after we mailed you the statement (or otherwise made it
             available to you). This means, for example, that you cannot
             bring a lawsuit against us, even if we are at fault, for
             paying checks bearing a forgery of your signature unless
             you reported the forgery within thirty (30) Calendar Days
             after we mailed you the statement (or otherwise made it
             available to you) listing the check we paid.
             We may destroy original checks not less than thirty (30) Calendar
             Days after the statement mailing date. We will retain copies of
             the front and back of the checks on microfilm or other media for
             a period of seven (7) years. During that period, we will provide
             you an imaged copy of any paid check on request, but we need
             not do so thereafter. You agree not to make any claim against us
             arising out of the authorized destruction of your original checks
             or the clarity or legibility of any copy we provide.

             Combined Statements with Checking
             If more than one checking type Account is combined together
             on a monthly statement, then only one Checking Account can
             be designated as the primary Account. This primary Account
             may receive imaged copies of the paid checks back with the
             statement, and we may impose a fee as disclosed on the Personal
             Fee Schedule, for providing these imaged copies. Checks for all
             other Accounts will be retained by the Bank. To request a copy
             of a paid check, please call 1-888-751-9000.
             Please note that a Health Savings Account cannot be included
             on a combined statement.

             Checks
             All negotiable paper (called “checks”) presented for payment
             must be in a form supplied by or previously approved by the
             Bank. The Bank may refuse to accept any check that does not
             meet this requirement or which is incompletely or defectively
             drawn. Once an outstanding check is six (6) months old, we may
             elect not to pay it. But if there is no stop payment order on file
             when we receive the check for payment, we may elect to pay it
             in good faith without consulting you. You agree that you will use
             care in safeguarding your unsigned checks against loss or theft.
             You will tell us immediately if any checks are missing. You agree
             to assume all losses that could have been prevented if you had
             safeguarded unsigned (or otherwise incomplete) checks, or had
             told us they were missing.

             Processing Order for Payment of Checks
             and Other Items
             The following describes how we pay or charge to your Account
             checks and other items presented for payment. An “item”
             includes a check, substitute check, purported substitute check,

                                            11





             remotely created check or draft, electronic transaction, draft,
             demand draft, image replacement document, indemnified
             copy, ATM withdrawal or transfer, debit card point-of-sale
             transaction, pre-authorized debit card payment, automatic
             transfer, telephone-initiated transfer, ACH transaction, online
             banking transfer or bill payment instruction, withdrawal slip, in-
             person transfer or withdrawal, cash ticket, deposit adjustment,
             wire transfer, and any other instruction or order for the payment,
             transfer or withdrawal of funds.
             For purposes of determining your Account balance and processing
             items to your Account, including returning items due to insufficient
             funds or paying items that overdraw your Account, all items are
             processed overnight at the end of each Business Day (which
             excludes Saturday, Sunday and federal holidays), as follows:
             a) First, deposits that have become available to you that Business
                Day are added to your available Account balance. Please read
                the Funds Availability Policy for a detailed discussion of how
                and when we make funds available to you.
             b) Next, the total amount of any “pending” debit card, ATM
                and electronic transactions that have been authorized but not
                yet paid is deducted from your available Account balance.
                When you use a debit card, ATM card, or other electronic
                means to make withdrawals, we may receive notice of the
                transaction before it is actually presented to us for payment.
                That notice may be in the form of a merchant authorization
                request or other electronic inquiry. Upon receipt of such
                notice, we treat the transaction as “pending” at the time we
                receive notice, and subject to certain exceptions, we deduct
                the amount of the pending transactions from your available
                Account balance to determine the amount available to pay
                other items presented against your Account. The amount of
                a pending authorization may not be equal to the amount
                of the actual transaction that is presented for payment and
                posted to your Account. If a pending transaction is not
                presented for payment within three (3) Business Days after we
                receive notice of the transaction, we will release the amount
                of the pending transaction. We do not deduct the amount
                of pending debit card authorizations from your available
                Account balance for certain merchants that frequently request
                authorization for amounts in excess of the likely transaction
                amount, including hotels and resorts, airlines and cruise lines,
                car rental companies, and automated gas pumps (pay at
                the pump).
             c) We then post items to your Account by category, in the
                following order:
                i) Outgoing wire transfers, return deposit items, and debit
                   adjustments to your Account balance;
                ii) Overdraft fees, other returned item fees, and deposit return
                    fees;
                                             12





                  iii) All other Account fees (except as described in
                       (iv) below), and all other items including checks,
                       ATM transactions, and debit card transactions; and
                  iv) Fees assessed at the end of the statement cycle including,
                      for example but not limited to, monthly maintenance fees.
                  Within categories i, ii, and iii, we post items in order from
                  largest to smallest.
             We do not process transactions in the order in which they
             occur. The order in which items are processed may affect the
             total amount of overdraft fees incurred. Overdraft fees may be
             assessed on items presented for payment that bring your Account
             into a negative balance, as well as any subsequent transactions
             presented for payment while the Account has a negative balance.
             See “Overdrafts” and “Sustained Fee for Overdrawn Accounts”
             below, as well as the Personal Fee Schedule for more information.
             Overdraft fees are not charged on “pending” authorizations,
             although they reduce your available balance.
             We may from time to time change the order in which we
             accept, pay or charge items to your Account even if (a) paying a
             particular item results in an insufficient balance in your Account
             to pay one or more other items that otherwise could have been
             paid out of your Account; or (b) using a particular order results
             in the payment of fewer items or the imposition of additional
             fees. If we do change our processing order for checks and other
             items presented for payment from your Account, we will provide
             advance notice of the change.

             We may refuse to pay a check or other item which:
             a) is illegible;
             b) is drawn in an amount greater than the amount of funds
                then available for withdrawal in your Account (see the Funds
                Availability Policy) or which would, if paid, create an overdraft;
             c) bears a duplicate check number;
             d) we believe has been altered;
             e) we believe is otherwise not properly payable; or
             f)   we believe does not bear an authorized signature.
             We are not required to honor any restrictive legend on
             checks you write unless we have agreed in writing to the
             restriction. Examples of restrictive legends are “Not Valid
             For More Than $1000,” “Void If Not Negotiated Within
             30 Days of Issuance,” and the like.

             Postdated Items
             You agree that when you write a check you will not date the check
             in the future. If you do and the check is presented for payment
             before the date of the check, we may either pay it or return it
             unpaid. You agree that if we pay the check, the check will be
             posted to your Account on the day we pay the check. You further
             agree that we are not responsible for any loss to you in doing so.

                                              13





             Pre-authorized Drafts
             If you voluntarily give information about your Account (such as
             our routing number and your Account number) to a party who
             is seeking to sell you goods or services, and you do not physically
             deliver a check to the party, any debit to your Account initiated
             by the party to whom you gave the information is deemed
             authorized by you.

             Overdrafts
             An overdraft is an advance of funds greater than the amount
             that has become available in accordance with the Bank’s Funds
             Availability Policy, made by us to you, at our sole discretion.
             Overdrafts may include advances to cover a check, in-person
             withdrawal, ATM withdrawal, or a withdrawal by other electronic
             means from your Account. We may demand immediate
             repayment of any overdraft and charge you an overdraft fee (see
             Personal Fee Schedule).
             You may overdraw your account by up to $5 per day without
             being charged a fee. If your negative available balance exceeds
             $5 at the end of the day, we will charge you for each transaction
             that overdraws your account (see “Important Information for
             Consumers about your TD Bank Checking Account” brochure).
             You agree to pay us, when we ask you, all of our costs of collecting
             an overdraft, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law.
             These costs include, but are not limited to, our legal fees and
             expenses. If more than one of you owns an Account, each of
             you will be responsible for paying us the entire amount of all
             overdrafts and obligations resulting from the overdrafts.
             We do not have to allow you to make an overdraft. Intentionally
             withdrawing funds from an Account when there are not enough
             funds in the Account to cover the withdrawal or when the funds
             are not yet available for withdrawal may be a crime.

             Sustained Fee for Overdrawn Accounts
             We may charge you a fee, as disclosed in the Personal Fee
             Schedule, for any Checking or Money Market Account that
             remains in overdrawn status for ten (10) consecutive Business
             Days. We will notify you if your Checking or Money Market
             Account is in overdrawn status. If your Checking or Money Market
             Account is in overdrawn status because of an overdraft, check
             returned for insufficient funds or for any other reason and the
             Account remains in overdrawn status for ten (10) consecutive
             Business Days, we may charge the fee. If you have overdraft
             protection and you have exceeded your limit and the Checking
             or Money Market Account remains in overdrawn status for ten
             (10) consecutive Business Days, we may charge the fee.
             If the Checking or Money Market Account remains in overdrawn
             status for sixty (60) Calendar Days, or such earlier time that we
             determine that the overdraft balance is uncollectible, the Bank


                                             14





             will close and place the Checking or Money Market Account in
             collection status.

             Stop Payments
             At your request and risk, the Bank will accept a stop payment
             request for a check on your Account for a fee (see Personal
             Fee Schedule). To be effective, a stop payment request must
             be received in such timely manner so as to give the Bank a
             reasonable opportunity to act on it, and must precisely identify
             the Account number, check number, date and amount of the
             item, and the payee.
             Your stop payment request will be effective after the request has
             been received by the Bank and the Bank has had a reasonable
             opportunity to act on it. Regardless of whether your stop payment
             request has been made orally or in writing, it will remain in effect
             for one (1) year from the date it was given. If your stop payment
             request has been made orally, the Bank will send you a written
             confirmation. If your stop payment request is made in writing,
             you must use a form that is supplied by the Bank; this form will
             constitute written confirmation of your request. In either case, it
             is your responsibility to ensure that all of the information supplied
             on your written confirmation is correct and to promptly inform
             the Bank of any inaccuracies.
             To maintain the validity of the stop payment request for more than
             one (1) year, you must furnish a new stop payment request that
             is confirmed in writing as described in the preceding paragraph
             before the expiration of the one (1) year period. If a new stop
             payment request is not received, the check may be paid.
             We are not liable for failing to stop payment if you have not given
             us sufficient information or if your stop payment request comes
             too late for us to act on it. We are entitled to a reasonable period
             of time after we receive your stop payment request to notify our
             employees and take other action needed to stop payment. You
             agree that “reasonable time” depends on the circumstances but
             that we will have acted within a reasonable time if we make your
             stop payment request effective by the end of the next Business
             Day following the Business Day on which we receive your stop
             payment request. If we stop payment, you agree to defend and
             pay any claims raised against us as a result of our refusal to pay
             the check or other item on which you stopped payment.
             If we recredit your Account after we have paid a check or other
             item over a valid and timely stop order, you agree to sign a
             statement describing the dispute you have with the person to
             whom the check or item was made payable. You also agree to
             transfer to us all of your rights against the payee and any other
             holder, endorser or prior transferee of the check or item and to
             cooperate with us in any legal action taken to collect against
             the other person(s).



                                              15





             If we are liable for inadvertently paying your check over a stop
             payment order, you must establish the amount of your loss
             caused by our payment of the check. We will pay you only the
             amount of the loss, up to the face amount of the check. You
             agree that we shall not be liable for any punitive, exemplary or
             consequential damages.
             The Bank has no duty to stop payment on a cashier’s check,
             teller’s check or other similar item because items of this type are
             not drawn on your Account. The Bank may, in its sole discretion,
             attempt to stop payment on a cashier’s check, teller’s check or
             other similar item if you certify to our satisfaction that the item
             has been lost, stolen or destroyed. You must also furnish any other
             documents or information we may require, which may include
             your affidavit attesting to the facts and your indemnification of
             the Bank. Even if the Bank agrees to attempt to stop payment on
             a cashier’s check, teller’s check or other similar item, if the item is
             presented for payment, the Bank may pay it and you will be liable
             to us for that item, unless otherwise required by applicable law.

             International ACH and Wire Transactions
             If your Account receives incoming ACH transactions (either
             credits or debits) or wire transfers initiated from outside of the
             United States, both you and we are subject to the Operating
             Rules and Guidelines of the National Automated Clearing
             House Association (“NACHA”) or the rules of any wire transfer
             system involved, and the laws enforced by the Office of Foreign
             Assets Control (“OFAC”). Under such rules and laws, we may
             temporarily suspend processing of a transaction for greater
             scrutiny or verification against the OFAC list of blocked parties,
             which may result in delayed settlement, posting and/or availability
             of funds. If we determine there is a violation, or if we cannot
             satisfactorily resolve a suspected or potential violation, the subject
             funds will be blocked as required by law. If you believe you have
             adequate grounds to seek the return of any blocked funds, it is
             your sole responsibility to pursue the matter with the appropriate
             governmental authorities. Please see the OFAC website for
             procedures and form required to seek a release of blocked funds.
             We may impose a fee, as disclosed on the Personal Fee Schedule,
             for any domestic or international incoming wire transactions.

             Incoming Wire Payment Instructions
             Please provide the sender of a wire the following information in
             order for you to receive the funds in a timely manner:
             1. For Incoming USD International wires from foreign countries,
                the wiring instructions are as follows:
             Wire to:       TD Bank N.A.
                            Wilmington, Delaware
             FED ABA#:      0311-0126-6


                                               16





             Credit to:    TD Bank Customer Name (Full Name)
                           Customer’s full physical address
                           (street, city, state, country)
                           Customer’s full Account Number
             2. For Incoming Foreign Currency international payment,
                the wiring instructions are as follows:
             Wire to:      The Toronto-Dominion Bank
             Swift code:   TDOMCATTTOR
                           The Toronto-Dominion Bank, Toronto, Ontario,
                           Canada , M5K 1A2
             For Further Credit to Beneﬁciary Bank, TD Bank N.A.:
             Swift code:   NRTHUS33XXX
                           TD BANK, N.A.
                           TD BANK, N.A. Branch Full Address
                           (street, city, state, country)
             In Favor of:
             Beneﬁciary Full Account Number:
                          The Customer’s full account number
             Beneﬁciary Full Name:
                          The Customer’s full name on the account
             Beneﬁciary Address:
                         The Customer’s full physical address
                         (street, city, state, country)

             Changing Your Account
             If we agree to let you make any change to your Account type in
             the middle of the Account’s statement period, without requiring
             you to open a new Account and without changing your Account
             number, you agree that the following rules will apply to the
             statement period in which we agree to let you make this change:
             1. Interest: The rules for the payment of interest (if any) on the
                new Account will take effect on the day the type of Account
                is changed (the “Change Date”). For the days before the
                Change Date, the rules for the payment of interest (if any)
                and for any minimum balance that must be maintained in
                order to qualify for interest (if any) that applied to the old
                Account will apply.
             2. Fees and Charges: The rules for all fees and charges that
                we may charge in connection with the new Account, and
                for any minimum balance that must be maintained in order
                to avoid certain fees and charges, will take effect after the
                Change Date.
             3. Account Statement: The Account statement you will receive
                for the statement period that includes the Change Date will
                show: (1) the total interest earned or accrued during the entire
                statement period; (2) the corresponding “annual percentage



                                             17





                 yield earned” for the entire statement period; and (3) the fees
                 and charges subtracted from your Account during the entire
                 statement period.

             Power of Attorney
             We may, in our sole discretion (unless we are required by law to
             recognize a statutory form of power of attorney), recognize the
             authority of a person to whom you have given a power of attorney
             to enter into transactions relating to your Account, until and
             unless we receive written notice or we have actual notice of the
             revocation of such power of attorney. However, you must show
             us an original copy or certified copy of the power of attorney,
             properly notarized, and any other documentation we may ask for
             from time to time. The power of attorney and all other documents
             must be in a form satisfactory to the Bank. We will not be liable
             for damages or penalty by reason of any payment made to, or at
             the direction of, a person holding a power of attorney.

             Adverse Claims; Interpleader; Legal Process
             We need not honor any claim against or involving an Account
             unless we are required to do so by order of a court or government
             agency that has jurisdiction over us, or pursuant to applicable
             law. This rule applies to any person asserting any rights or interest
             regarding an Account, including you and other persons who are
             authorized to make withdrawals or write checks or who present
             a power of attorney signed by you.
             If we receive notice of any claim or dispute or of any legal
             proceeding we reasonably believe involves you or any of your
             Accounts, in our discretion we may suspend transactions on any
             Account which we believe to be affected until final determination
             of the claim or proceeding. We may place a hold on any funds
             in the Account and suspend transactions whether the affected
             Account is in your name alone or is a joint Account. An Account
             may be suspended even though the suspension may have been
             due to inadvertence, error because of similarity of the names of
             depositors, or other mistake.
             You agree that we may comply with any state or federal legal
             process, including, without limitation, any writ of attachment,
             adverse claim, execution, garnishment, tax levy, restraining order,
             subpoena or warrant relating to you or your Account which we
             believe to be valid, without any liability from us to you. You agree
             that if we are served with legal process at any of our Stores or
             offices, we may comply with it, even if it is served at a location
             other than where your Account was opened. Further, you agree
             that we may comply with such process as we deem appropriate
             under the circumstances even if the legal process or document
             appears to affect the interest of only one owner of a joint
             Account. In such case, we may refuse to permit withdrawals or
             transfers from your Account until such legal process is satisfied
             or dismissed even if such action results in insufficient funds to

                                              18





             pay a check you have written or otherwise satisfy an obligation
             you may have incurred.
             You agree that we are entitled to a processing fee, for which you
             are liable to us, upon receipt of any legal process. We may deduct
             such fee, as well as any expenses, including without limitation
             attorneys’ fees, in connection with any such document or legal
             process, from your Account or any other Account you may have
             with us without prior notice to you, or we may bill you directly
             for such expenses and fees. Any garnishment, attachment or
             other levy against your Account shall be subject to our right of
             set-off and security interest.
             You agree that we will not pay and you shall not be entitled to
             receive interest on any funds we hold or set aside in connection
             with or in response to legal process. Finally, you agree that we may
             accept and comply with legal process, irrespective of how and/
             or where it was received even if the law requires any particular
             method of service.
             You agree to indemnify us against all losses, costs, attorneys’ fees,
             and any other liabilities that we incur by reason of responding to
             or initiating any legal action, including any interpleader action
             we commence involving you or your Account. As part of that
             indemnity, in the event we incur liability to a creditor of yours as
             a result of our response or failure to respond to a legal action,
             you agree to pay us on demand the amount of our liability to
             your creditor and to reimburse us for any expense, attorneys’ fees,
             or other costs we may incur in collecting the amount from you.
             We may, in our sole discretion and without any liability to you,
             initiate an action in interpleader to determine the rights of the
             persons making adverse claims to your Account. We may exercise
             the right regardless of whether the persons making the adverse
             claims have complied with all statutory requirements pertaining
             to adverse claims, such as posting a bond or giving other surety.
             Upon initiation of an interpleader action, we will be relieved and
             discharged of all further duties and obligations.

             If You Owe Us Money
             If you withdraw funds from your Account that you do not have
             a right to withdraw, including the amount of a check or other
             item which we later charge back to your Account or any amounts
             that may be credited to your Account in error, you will have to
             pay us back. If you do not, we can bring a lawsuit against you to
             get the money back. We can also do this if you owe us any fees
             or charges in connection with your Account and you do not pay
             us. If we bring a lawsuit against you, you agree to pay our court
             costs and reasonable attorneys’ fees as awarded by the court
             and as permitted by law.




                                              19





             Right of Set-Off
             Unless we are prohibited by applicable law, the Bank can take
             any funds in any of your Account(s) to pay any debt you owe us
             that is in default. This is called the right of set-off and applies
             to all funds of yours in our possession now or in the future. We
             can use this right of set-off without giving you any notice (unless
             notice is required by applicable law) and without going through
             any legal processes or court proceedings. If this is a joint Account,
             the right of set-off applies to deposits of each co-owner to pay
             the debts owed to us by any or all of you. Likewise, we could
             withdraw money from an Account owned by only one person
             and apply it to reduce the joint debt of that person and another
             person. This right of set-off does not apply to your Account if: (a)
             it is an IRA or a tax-deferred retirement Account, Health Savings
             Account, or Coverdell Education Savings Account; or (b) the
             debt is created by a consumer credit transaction under a credit
             card plan; or (c) the debtor’s right of withdrawal arises only in a
             representative capacity.
             We also have a right to place a hold on funds in your Account(s)
             if we have a claim against you or pending exercise of our right of
             set-off. If we place a hold on your Account, you may not withdraw
             funds from the Account and we can refuse to pay checks or other
             items drawn on the Account.
             In addition to any right of set-off, you hereby grant to the Bank
             a security interest in your deposit Accounts to secure all loans or
             other extensions of credit, now or in the future.

             Death/Incompetence
             Your death, or a declaration that you are legally incompetent to
             handle your affairs, does not end our authority to pay checks
             signed or other items authorized by you, to accept deposits or
             to collect items deposited until we receive written notice of your
             death or declared incompetence. Even after we receive notice,
             we can pay checks or other items authorized by you before your
             death or declared incompetence for such period of time permitted
             under applicable law.
             On joint Accounts, your death or declared incompetence does
             not affect the rights of any other owner of the Account to make
             deposits, make withdrawals or, if applicable, write checks. We
             may require the surviving owners and any in-trust-for Account
             beneficiary to provide reasonable proof of your death or
             incompetence and, in some jurisdictions, provide any tax releases
             or other documents or consents needed from government
             authorities before we pay any checks or other items authorized
             on your joint Account or allow the surviving owners or your
             beneficiary to withdraw any funds from the Account. Each of
             you is responsible for notifying us when any other joint owner
             of an Account dies.



                                              20





             Certain checks or other items made payable to a deceased joint
             Account holder (e.g. Social Security checks or electronic deposits)
             must be returned to the issuer and may not be used, cashed or
             disposed of in any other way by the surviving Account holders.
             If such items are used, cashed or disposed of by any one or all
             of the surviving Account holders, each Account holder remains
             liable for the amount of the item and any charges incurred as a
             result of the improper use of the item. In our discretion, we can
             charge your Account for the amount of these items and remit
             payment to the issuer of the item.

             Limited Liability
             UNLESS EXPRESSLY PROHIBITED OR OTHERWISE RESTRICTED
             BY APPLICABLE LAW, THIS AGREEMENT, OR THE ELECTRONIC
             FUNDS TRANSFERS DISCLOSURE, THE BANK’S LIABILITY IS
             LIMITED AS FOLLOWS: THE BANK WILL NOT BE LIABLE TO YOU
             FOR PERFORMING OR FAILING TO PERFORM OUR SERVICES
             UNDER OR IN CONNECTION WITH THIS AGREEMENT UNLESS
             WE HAVE ACTED IN BAD FAITH. WITHOUT LIMITING THE
             ABOVE, THE BANK WILL NOT BE LIABLE FOR DELAYS OR
             MISTAKES WHICH HAPPEN BECAUSE OF REASONS BEYOND OUR
             CONTROL, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, ACTS OF BANKING
             AUTHORITIES, NATIONAL EMERGENCIES, ACTS OF GOD, FAILURE
             OF TRANSPORTATION, COMMUNICATION OR POWER SUPPLY,
             MALFUNCTION OF OR UNAVOIDABLE DIFFICULTIES WITH THE
             BANK’S EQUIPMENT. SHOULD A COURT ESTABLISH THE BANK’S
             LIABILITY TO YOU PURSUANT TO WHAT WAS DONE OR NOT
             DONE UNDER THIS AGREEMENT, YOU MAY RECOVER FROM THE
             BANK ONLY YOUR ACTUAL DAMAGES, IN AN AMOUNT NOT TO
             EXCEED THE TOTAL FEES AND CHARGES PAID BY YOU TO THE
             BANK PURSUANT TO THIS AGREEMENT DURING THE THREE (3)
             MONTH PERIOD IMMEDIATELY PRECEDING THE EVENT GIVING
             RISE TO THE LIABILITY. IN NO EVENT WILL YOU BE ABLE TO
             RECOVER FROM THE BANK INDIRECT, SPECIAL, CONSEQUENTIAL,
             EXEMPLARY DAMAGES OR LOST PROFITS, WHETHER OR NOT IT
             HAS NOTICE THEREOF.
             This Agreement and the deposit relationship do not create a
             fiduciary, quasi-fiduciary, or special relationship between you
             and us. Our deposit relationship with you is that of debtor and
             creditor. The Bank’s internal policies and procedures are solely for
             our own purposes and do not impose on us a higher standard
             of care than otherwise would apply by law without such policies
             or procedures.

             Default
             Your Account may be in default if: (a) you have repeatedly
             overdrawn your Account; (b) you do not repay immediately any
             overdraft; (c) you do not comply fully with any term or condition
             of this Agreement or of any other agreement you may have with
             us; (d) you give us false or misleading information about yourself

                                             21





             or any of your deposit or credit relationships with us or with
             others; (e) you file or someone else files against you a petition in
             bankruptcy; (f) any of your loans with us is past due or otherwise
             in default; (g) we, in our sole discretion, are not satisfied with
             your condition or affairs, financial or otherwise; or (h) we, in our
             sole discretion, believe that your financial condition has suffered
             an adverse change.
             If you are in default, we may close any or all of your Accounts,
             with or without notice (unless notice is required under applicable
             law), or we may exercise all available rights and remedies provided
             elsewhere in this Agreement or other agreements and all rights
             and remedies available at law or equity.

             Indemnity
             a) In General. You agree to indemnify, and hold TD Bank
                harmless from and against any and all losses, liabilities,
                penalties, damages, costs, expenses (including, but not limited
                to, attorneys’ fees and court costs) or other harm or injury
                that we may incur as a result of any claim asserted against us
                by any third party arising out of any action at any time taken
                or omitted to be taken by (i) you under or in connection with
                this Agreement, including, but not limited to, your failure to
                observe and perform properly each and every obligation in
                accordance with this Agreement and any other agreement
                which you enter into with us; or (ii) us in reliance upon any
                certification, evidence of authority, or other document or
                notice given or purporting to have been given by you to us,
                or any information or order which you provide to us. This
                indemnification does not apply to claims that you may assert
                against us, or to any amounts we are obligated to pay you
                under the terms of this Agreement or applicable law.
             b) Your Instructions to Us. Without limiting the above, if
                you give us instructions which we believe may expose us to
                potential liability, we may refuse to follow your instructions. If
                we decide to follow your instructions, you agree to indemnify
                us against all losses, costs, attorneys’ fees and any other
                liabilities we incur. In addition, we may ask you for certain
                protections, such as a surety bond or your indemnity in a form
                satisfactory to us.

             Jury Trial Waiver
             YOU AND WE EACH AGREE THAT NEITHER YOU NOR WE
             SHALL (A) SEEK A JURY TRIAL IN ANY LAWSUIT, PROCEEDING,
             COUNTERCLAIM, OR ANY OTHER ACTION BASED UPON, OR
             ARISING OUT OF, THIS AGREEMENT OR ANY ACCOUNT OR THE
             DEALINGS OF THE RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN YOU OR US, OR (B)
             SEEK TO CONSOLIDATE ANY SUCH ACTION IN WHICH A JURY
             TRIAL CANNOT BE OR HAS NOT BEEN WAIVED. THE PROVISIONS
             OF THIS SECTION SHALL BE SUBJECT TO NO EXCEPTIONS.
             NEITHER YOU NOR WE HAVE AGREED WITH OR REPRESENTED

                                              22





             TO THE OTHER THAT THE PROVISIONS OF THIS SECTION WILL
             NOT BE FULLY ENFORCED IN ALL INSTANCES. YOU AND WE EACH
             ACKNOWLEDGE THAT THIS WAIVER HAS BEEN KNOWINGLY AND
             VOLUNTARILY MADE.

             Miscellaneous
             a) Our Right to Refuse/Close Accounts: The Bank reserves
                the right to refuse to open any Account and to terminate any
                Account at any time, and for any reason, or no reason without
                notice to you (unless notice is required under applicable law).
                This Agreement survives the closing of your Account.
             b) Our Right to Delay Enforcement: We can choose to not
                enforce or delay in enforcing any provisions of this Agreement
                without losing the right to enforce them in the future.
             c) Assignment: Your Account may not be transferred, pledged
                or assigned without the Bank’s prior written consent, to be
                given or refused at the Bank’s sole discretion.
             d) Items in the Mail: We are not responsible for any items you
                mail to us that are lost in transit. Therefore, you may not wish
                to place currency or coupons in the mail.
             e) Direct Deposit: If you have direct deposit, you agree that if a
                direct deposit must be returned for any reason, you authorize
                us to deduct the amount from this Account or any other
                Account you may have with us, without prior notice and at
                any time.
             f)   Accounts with Zero Balance: We may consider any Account
                  (excluding CDs) having a zero balance for forty-five (45)
                  Calendar Days to be closed by you.
             g) Notice of Address Changes: You must notify us in writing,
                by phone or at any of our banking offices, of any change
                of address. Any communication we send to you at the last
                address as shown on our records will be binding on you for
                all purposes. You agree we may change your address on our
                records based on information provided by the United States
                Postal Service without notice to you.
             h) Abandoned Accounts: If your Account is considered to be
                abandoned under applicable law because you have not used
                or acknowledged your Account for a time period directed
                by law, we must turn over the funds in your Account to the
                appropriate governmental authority. We may give notices as
                required by law before we do this. You may try to reclaim
                funds turned over to the governmental authority to the extent
                permitted by applicable law.
             i)   Account Mailings: From time to time, the Bank may enclose
                  advertising or promotional materials with any periodic
                  statement that is mailed or otherwise made available to you
                  with respect to your Account(s). These materials may include,
                  without limitation, information regarding new, modified or
                  discontinued products or services, as well as sweepstakes
                                             23





                  or other contests sponsored by the Bank. By opening and
                  maintaining an Account with the Bank, you consent to the
                  mailing and receipt of these advertising or promotional
                  materials with your periodic statement.
             j)   Banking Practices: In the absence of a specific provision in
                  this Agreement to the contrary, your Account will be subject to
                  our usual banking practices and, to the extent not inconsistent
                  therewith, the general commercial banking practices in the
                  area we serve.
             k) Severability: If any provision of this Agreement is invalid,
                changed by applicable law or declared invalid by order of
                a court, the remaining terms of this Agreement will not be
                affected, and the invalid provision shall be reformed in order
                to preserve the original intent of this Agreement to the fullest
                extent feasible. However, if such reformation is not feasible,
                this Agreement will be interpreted as if the invalid provision
                had not been placed in this Agreement.
             l)   Governing Law: This Agreement is governed by the laws of
                  the jurisdiction in which the Store where you opened your
                  Account is located, except where applicable federal law is
                  controlling.
             m) Amendments: We reserve the right to change the terms
                of this Agreement or change the terms of your Account at
                any time. We will give you such notice of the change as we
                determine is appropriate, such as by statement message or
                enclosure, letter, or as posted in the Store, and as required
                under applicable law. Where applicable law permits, we can
                notify you of the changes by posting a new version of this
                Agreement online, or by making the new version available in
                our Stores. Your continued use of the Account following the
                effective date of any such change indicates your consent to
                be bound by this Agreement, as amended. If you would like
                a copy of a current Agreement or have questions, please ask
                any Bank representative or call us at 1-888-751-9000.
             n) Maine Disclosure of Complaint Resolution Procedures:
                If you have a dispute with TD Bank regarding your deposit
                account, you may contact us and attempt to resolve
                the problem directly. If we fail to resolve the problem, you
                may communicate the problem and the resolution you are
                seeking to:
                  Bureau of Financial Institutions
                  36 State House Station
                  Augusta, Maine 04333-0036
                  To file a complaint electronically, you may contact the Bureau
                  of Financial Institutions at the following Internet address:
                  www.maine.gov/pfr/financialinstitutions/complaint.htm.
                  The Bureau of Financial Institutions will acknowledge receipt
                  of your complaint promptly and investigate your claim. You

                                              24





                will be informed of the results of the investigation. When your
                complaint involves a federally-chartered financial institution
                or credit union, the Bureau of Financial Institutions will refer
                it to the appropriate federal supervisory agency and inform
                you to whom it has been referred.

             Part II: Truth in Savings Disclosure
             1. Accounts Covered: “Accounts” covered by this disclosure
                include ALL personal deposit Accounts including Checking,
                interest bearing Checking, Money Market Accounts,
                Passbook Savings (where applicable), Statement Savings,
                and Certificates of Deposit (called “CDs”). Your Account will
                be considered open when you sign a signature card and we
                receive credit for your initial deposit. You must also complete
                and sign any other Account documentation that we may
                require from time to time to maintain your Account. Where
                applicable, information also pertains to like Private Banking
                Accounts.
             2. Interest Rate and ANNUAL PERCENTAGE YIELD:
                The current interest rate on your Account and the
                Annual Percentage Yield (or “APY”) are as shown on the
                accompanying Rate Sheet, which is considered part of this
                disclosure.
             Note: If this disclosure was given to you in connection with an
             inquiry, the Interest Rate(s) and APY(s) shown are rates that the
             Bank has offered within the seven (7) most recent Calendar Days,
             and are accurate as of the date shown on our Retail Rate Sheet.
             Current rates may be obtained by calling Customer Service at the
             toll-free number listed on the back of this disclosure.
             TD Convenience Checking, TD Student Checking, TD Simple
             Checking and Savings Transaction Accounts: These are non-
             interest bearing Accounts and have no APY.
             All interest bearing Checking, Savings, and Money Market
             Accounts: The interest rate and APY may change daily and are
             adjusted periodically by the Bank based on various economic
             factors. There is no limit on changes up or down and the rates
             are subject to change at any time without notice.
             To Obtain the Annual Percentage Yield (“APY”) Disclosed:
             You must maintain the minimum tier balance in the Account each
             day in order to obtain the disclosed APY for that particular tier.
             The APY disclosed assumes the Account remains on deposit for
             one year at the same interest rate.
             TD Relationship Savings: For personal and certain personal
             Trust TD Relationship Savings accounts, the interest rate
             and APY applied will also be determined by whether or not
             TD Bank has on record an eligible TD Bank account linked to
             that TD Relationship Savings account. An eligible account is a
             personal TD Bank Checking, Mortgage, Home Equity, or Credit
             Card account.

                                            25





             Definition of personal and certain personal Trust TD Relationship
             Savings accounts:
              Account                  Eligibility             Ownership
              Type                     Requirements            Requirements
              TD Relationship          In good                 Individual, Primary or
              SavingsSM                standing                Secondary Owner, OR
                                                               Trust set up with a Social
                                                               Security Number, or be
                                                               a Trustee of such a Trust
                                                               account
             Eligible accounts you may link:
              Account                    Eligibility                   Ownership
              Type                       Requirements                  Requirements
              Mortgage*,                 In good standing              Individual, Primary
              Home Equity                                              or Secondary
              Line of Credit,                                          Owner
              Home Equity Loan
              Credit Card                In good standing              Individual or
                                                                       Primary Owner
              Checking                   In good standing              Individual, Primary
                                         and, one Deposit,             or Secondary
                                         Withdrawal, Payment           Owner
                                         or Transfer transaction
                                         during the previous
                                         calendar month
             *Mortgages that we no longer service are not eligible

             In addition, certain personal Trust accounts are eligible to be
             linked:
              Account              Eligibility                       Ownership
              Type                 Requirements                      Requirements
              Checking             In good standing and,             Trust set up with
                                   one Deposit, Withdrawal,          a Social Security
                                   Payment or Transfer               Number, or be a
                                   transaction during the            Trustee of such a
                                   previous calendar month           Trust account

             On the last Business Day of a calendar month, if you do not have
             a linked, eligible personal Account (Checking, Mortgage, Home
             Equity Loan, Home Equity Line of Credit or Credit Card Account),
             the interest rate and APY applied to your account from the first
             Business Day of the next calendar month will be adjusted to
             reflect this change.
             For the current interest rate on your account, please refer to the
             appropriate table on the accompanying Rate Sheet.




                                                     26





              Type of TD Relationship           Table on Rate Sheet
              Savings account
              Qualifying TD Relationship        TD Relationship Savings (with
              Savings accounts with an eligible linked account)
              TD Bank account linked to it
              All other TD Relationship Savings TD Relationship Savings
              accounts                          (without linked account)

             Non-personal TD Relationship Savings accounts will receive the
             interest rate and APY applicable to TD Relationship Savings
             accounts without a linked account.
             Information regarding your linked account may be made available
             to any other owner or signer on any of the accounts you have
             linked.
             If you choose to link your personal account to an account for
             which you serve as trustee, either of your accounts may receive a
             financial benefit, which could be a violation of your fiduciary duties.
             TD Growth Money Market: For personal and certain personal
             Trust TD Growth Money Market accounts, the interest rate and
             APY applied will also be determined by whether your account
             meets all of the following criteria:
             a. Whether or not your TD Growth Money Market account
                qualifies, as defined below:

              Account              Eligibility         Ownership
              Type                 Requirements        Requirements
              TD Growth            In good             Individual, Primary
              Money MarketSM       standing            or Secondary Owner,
                                                       OR Trust set up with
                                                       a Social Security
                                                       Number, or be a
                                                       Trustee of such a
                                                       Trust account

             b. Whether or not we have on record an eligible, personal TD
                Bank Checking account linked to your TD Growth Money
                Market account. Eligible accounts you may link include:

              Account              Eligibility         Ownership
              Type                 Requirements        Requirements
              Personal             In good             Individual, Primary or
              Checking             standing            Secondary Owner
              Personal             In good             Trust set up with
              Checking (Trust)     standing            a Social Security
                                                       Number, or be a
                                                       Trustee of such a
                                                       Trust account

             c. Whether or not your TD Growth Money Market has grown
                by $50 or more during your current statement cycle. This is
                determined by comparing the closing balance on your current
                statement to the closing balance on your previous statement.
                                               27





             d. Whether or not you made at least one qualifying transfer into
                your TD Growth Money Market account during your current
                statement cycle.
                i. A qualifying transfer is a recurring transfer of any amount
                   from a TD Bank account. Eligible transfers include
                   recurring transfers set up by phone or at a TD Bank Store,
                   or through Online Banking. Transfers set up using ATMs,
                   voice response units, overdraft protection transfers, and
                   sweeps are not eligible.
                ii. In addition, an Immediate transfer completed through
                     Online Banking will also qualify.
                iii. To be eligible, your qualifying transfer must post during
                     the period starting the first business day and ending the
                     last business day of your current statement cycle. Please
                     be aware of the available balance in your accounts -
                     transferring funds from an account with an insufficient
                     balance may result in an Overdraft and a fee may be
                     charged. Please refer to the Overdraft section for details.
             On the last business day of your statement cycle, we will
             determine whether you meet the above requirements, and the
             interest rate and APY applied to your account from the first
             business day of the next statement cycle will be adjusted, if
             necessary, to reflect your account qualification status.
             For the current interest rate on your account, please refer to the
             appropriate table on the accompanying rate sheet.
              Type of TD Growth Money               Table on Rate Sheet
              Market
              Qualifying TD Growth Money            TD Growth Money Market
              Market accounts with a linked         (with Qualifying Activity)
              eligible Checking account, net
              balance growth of at least $50,
              and a recurring transfer into
              the account
              All other TD Growth Money             TD Growth Money Market
              Market accounts                       (without Qualifying Activity)

             Non-personal TD Growth Money Market accounts will receive the
             interest rate and APY applicable to TD Growth Money Market
             accounts without qualifying activity.
             Information regarding your linked account may be made
             available to any other owner or signer on any of the accounts
             you have linked.
             If you choose to link your personal account to an account for
             which you serve as trustee, either of your accounts may receive a
             financial benefit, which could be a violation of your fiduciary duties.
             Fixed Rate CDs: The interest rate and APY are fixed for the term
             of the certificate and may only be changed at maturity.



                                               28





             Step Rate CD: Three (3) and five (5) year terms are available. The
             APY will increase every year on the anniversary of the Account
             open date. At maturity, the Step Rate CD will renew to a one
             (1) year term.
             2A. TD Relationship Checking, TD Relationship Savings and
                 Private High Yield Savings Accounts: The Chart which
                 follows indicates the balance tier levels used to determine
                 the variable interest rate and APY being applied to your
                 Account. The interest rate and annual percentage yield for
                 the appropriate tier will be paid on the full balance in the
                 Account.
             Balance Tier Structure:
             $     0.01 – $ 999.99           $ 50,000.00 – $ 99,999.99
             $ 1,000.00 – $ 9,999.99         $ 100,000.00 – $249,999.99
             $10,000.00 – $24,999.99         $ 250,000.00 – $499,999.99
             $25,000.00 – $49,999.99         $ 500,000.00 – $999,999.99
                                             $1,000,000.00+
             2B. TD Growth Money Market: The Chart below indicates the
                 balance tier levels used to determine the variable interest rate
                 and APY being applied to your Account. The interest rate and
                 annual percentage yield for the appropriate tier will be paid
                 on the full balance in the Account.
             Balance Tier Structure:
             $    0.01 – $ 999.99            $ 10,000.00 – $ 24,999.99
             $1,000.00 – $1,999.99           $ 25,000.00 – $ 49,999.99
             $2,000.00 – $4,999.99           $ 50,000.00 – $ 99,999.99
             $5,000.00 – $9,999.99           $100,000.00 – $249,999.99
                                             $250,000.00+
             2C. TD Premier Checking: The Chart below indicates the balance
                 tier levels used to determine the variable interest rate and APY
                 being applied to your Account. The interest rate and annual
                 percentage yield for the appropriate tier will be paid on the
                 full balance in the Account.
             Balance Tier Structure:
             $      0.01 – $ 2,499.99         $ 50,000.00 – $249,999.99
             $2,500.00 – $49,999.99           $250,000.00+
             2D. Private Tiered Checking Account: The Chart below
                 indicates the balance tier levels used to determine the variable
                 interest rate and APY being applied to your Account. The
                 interest rate and annual percentage yield for the appropriate
                 tier will be paid on the full balance in the Account.
              Balance Tier Structure:
             $     0.01 – $ 9,999.99         $ 25,000.00 – $249,999.99
             $10,000.00 – $24,999.99         $250,000.00 – $499,999.99
                                             $500,000.00+
             2E. Health Savings Account: The Chart on page 31 indicates
                 the balance tier levels used to determine the variable interest
                 rate and APY being applied to your Account. The interest rate
                 and annual percentage yield for the appropriate tier will be
                 paid on the full balance in the Account.

                                             29





             Balance Tier Structure:
             $    0.01 – $2,499.99             $10,000.00 – $24,999.99
             $2,500.00 – $9,999.99             $25,000.00 – $49,999.99
                                               $50,000.00+
             2F. NOTICE: Applicable to Certificates of Deposit ONLY:
             (i) Early Withdrawal Penalties: No part of the principal may be
                 withdrawn prior to maturity without the Bank’s consent. No
                 withdrawals will be permitted during the first seven (7) days
                 of the CD term. If the Bank does allow an early withdrawal,
                 the following penalties will apply:
              CD Term                               Penalty
              (including Basic, No Catch and
              IRA Add-Vantage CDs)
              7 – 89 days                           All interest
              90 days < 1 year                      3 months’ interest
              1 year < 2 years                      6 months’ interest
              2 years +                             9 months’ interest
              Step Rate CD Term                     Penalty
              3 years                                9 months interest
              5 years                               12 months interest

             In certain circumstances, such as the death or incompetence of an
             owner of the CD, the penalty may be waived. In no circumstances
             can the amount withdrawn bring the balance to below the
             Minimum to Open, as disclosed in the accompanying Account
             Maintenance Information grid.
             Step Rate CD: Partial and full withdrawals may be made without
             penalty during a ten (10) day grace period that begins on each
             anniversary of the account opening date.
             “No Catch” CD: At no cost to you, you will have the option to
             withdraw principal funds without penalty once during the term
             of the CD. Therefore, if you choose to withdraw principal funds,
             there will be no penalty for that withdrawal. More than one
             withdrawal of principal during the term of this CD may result
             in a penalty. The interest rate and APY remain the same for the
             term. No withdrawals will be permitted during the first seven (7)
             days of the CD term.
             (ii) Withdrawal of Interest Prior To Maturity: The APY
                  disclosed assumes interest and principal will remain on deposit
                  until maturity. A withdrawal will reduce earnings. For CDs of
                  less than one (1) year, the APY assumes the CD remains on
                  deposit for one (1) year at the current rate.
             (iii) Renewal Policies: Unless otherwise noted, CDs will
                   automatically renew to the same term at maturity. At maturity,
                   the Step Rate CD will renew to a one (1) year CD.
             At maturity you will have ten (10) Calendar Days after the
             maturity date to withdraw the funds without penalty. Interest
             not withdrawn will be converted to principal upon the renewal
             of the certificate.

                                               30





             (iv) Interest Computation: Interest is accrued on all deposits
                  as of the day the Account is opened on a 365/365-day basis
                  (366/366-day basis during a leap year), and is compounded
                  monthly on the cycle date. The APY for the Account
                  assumes that interest will remain on deposit until maturity; a
                  withdrawal will reduce earnings. The daily balance method
                  is used to calculate the interest on the Account. This method
                  applies a daily periodic rate to the principal in the Account
                  each day. Interest is credited monthly for all CDs.
             3. Frequency of Compounding and Crediting of Interest
                (Applicable to All Interest Bearing Accounts): With the
                exception of Holiday Club and Club Saver Accounts, the
                Bank compounds interest monthly. Interest is credited on a
                monthly basis. For Holiday Club and Club Saver Accounts,
                the Bank compounds interest daily and credits the interest
                at maturity. If you or we close your interest bearing Account
                before the date of interest posting, accrued interest in the
                amount of $10 or more will be paid. Accrued interest in an
                amount under $10 will not be paid except at the discretion
                of the Bank.
             4. Minimum Balance Requirements (All Accounts):
             (i) To Open Accounts: To open an Account, you must
                 deposit the amount shown in the accompanying Account
                 Maintenance Information grid.
             (ii) To Avoid Imposition of Monthly Maintenance Fees: To
                  avoid the imposition of monthly maintenance fees, you must
                  maintain the minimum required daily balance specified for
                  your type of Account for that particular monthly cycle. See
                  the accompanying Account Maintenance Information grid
                  for your type Account.
             (iii) TD Simple Savings: The monthly maintenance fee for
                   TD Simple Savings accounts will be waived in each service
                   charge cycle (a monthly period based on your statement date)
                   that the account meets all of the criteria specified below. This
                   waiver is only available for 12 months from the date you open
                   your account, or 12 months from the date when you switch
                   your account to TD Simple Savings.
             a. Your TD Simple Savings account must qualify, as defined
                below:
              Account              Eligibility        Ownership
              Type                 Requirements       Requirements
              TD Simple            In good            Individual, Primary or
              SavingsSM            standing           Secondary Owner, OR
                                                      Trust set up with a
                                                      Social Security Number,
                                                      or be a Trustee of such
                                                      a Trust account



                                              31





             b. We must have on record an eligible, personal TD Bank
                Checking account linked to your TD Simple Savings account.
                Eligible accounts you may link include:

              Account             Eligibility          Ownership
              Type                Requirements         Requirements
              Personal            In good              Individual, Primary or
              Checking            standing             Secondary Owner
              Personal            In good              Trust set up with a
              Checking (Trust)    standing             Social Security Number,
                                                       or be a Trustee of such
                                                       a Trust account

             c. There must have been at least one qualifying transfer into
                your TD Simple Savings account.
                i. A qualifying transfer is a recurring transfer of at least
                   $25 from a TD Bank account. Eligible transfers include
                   recurring transfers set up by phone or at a TD Bank Store,
                   or through Online Banking. Transfers set up using ATMs,
                   voice response units, overdraft protection transfers, and
                   sweeps are not eligible.
                ii.    In addition, an Immediate transfer completed through
                      Online Banking will also qualify.
                iii. To be eligible, your qualifying transfer must post during
                     the period starting the last business day of your previous
                     service charge cycle and ending the second-to-last business
                     day of your current service charge cycle (See example in
                     chart below). Please be aware of the available balance in
                     your accounts – transferring funds from an account with
                     an insufficient balance may result in an Overdraft and a
                     fee may be charged. Please refer to the Overdraft section
                     for details

              Previous Service Charge Cycle        Monday, April 1 – Tuesday,
                                                   April 30, 2013
              Current Service Charge Cycle         Wednesday, May 1 – Friday,
                                                   May 31, 2013
              Dates you can make                   Tuesday, April 30 – Thursday,
              a qualifying transfer                May 30, 2013

             We will determine whether your account qualifies for this monthly
             maintenance fee waiver on the second-to-last business day of
             your current service charge cycle.
             (iv) Monthly Maintenance Fee Discount: For all personal
                  checking, savings, money market and health savings accounts
                  that are charged a monthly maintenance fee, except for
                  Private Banking Accounts, the monthly fee will be reduced
                  by $1.00 when you choose to stop receiving printed and
                  mailed statements and switch to online statements only. The
                  fee reduction is not applicable to passbook accounts.


                                              32





             5. Balance Computation Method: We use the daily balance
                method to calculate interest on your Account. This method
                applies a periodic rate to the principal in the Account
                each day.
             6. Accrual of Interest: For all deposit accounts (except CDs),
                interest begins to accrue no later than the Business Day we
                receive credit for the deposit of non-cash items (for example,
                checks).
             7. Fees & Charges: Monthly maintenance fees are shown in the
                accompanying Account Maintenance Information grid. You
                agree to pay all fees applicable to the Account including those
                detailed in the Personal Fee Schedule. You will be notified at
                least thirty (30) days in advance of any changes to these fees.
             8. Account Opening Bonus Promotions: From time to time,
                we may offer cash bonus promotions for opening a new
                non-interest bearing checking account with an initial deposit
                of $100 or more. If we are offering such a promotion, and if
                you open a new non-interest bearing checking account with
                an initial deposit of at least $100 during the promotional
                period, you will receive a $25 cash bonus when you open
                the account. This bonus will be credited to your checking
                account on the business day it is opened. These promotions
                cannot be combined with any other offer and are limited to
                one bonus per Customer. The value of this bonus may be
                reported to the Internal Revenue Service.
                In addition, from time to time, we may offer a TD Bank Visa®
                Gift Card bonus promotion for opening a new non-interest
                bearing checking account with an initial deposit of $250 or
                more. If we are offering such a promotion, and if you open
                a new non-interest bearing checking account with an initial
                deposit of at least $250 during the promotional period, you will
                receive a $25 TD Bank Visa® Gift Card bonus when you open
                the account. This bonus will be provided on the business day it is
                opened. These promotions cannot be combined with any other
                offer and are limited to one bonus per Customer. The value of
                this bonus may be reported to the Internal Revenue Service.
                Also, from time to time, we may offer cash bonus promotions
                for enrolling in Direct Deposit in conjunction with opening a
                new non-interest bearing checking account with an initial
                deposit of $100 or more. If we are offering such a promotion,
                and if you open a new non-interest bearing checking account
                with an initial deposit of at least $100 and enroll in Direct
                Deposit on the spot during the promotional period, you
                will receive a $25 cash bonus when you open the account.
                This bonus will be credited to your checking account on
                the business day it is opened. These promotions cannot be
                combined with any other offer and are limited to one bonus
                per Customer. The value of this bonus may be reported to the
                Internal Revenue Service.

                                             33





             9. Promotional CD Interest Rates: From time to time, we may
                offer Promotional CD interest rates which may have different
                account opening requirements than our non-promotional
                (Basic) CD terms. These requirements will be disclosed on the
                Retail Deposit Rate Sheet. If we are offering such a promotion
                and you are opening a new account, you must deposit the
                required initial minimum balance to open the account in
                money not already on deposit at TD Bank to qualify. If we
                are offering such a promotion and you have a renewing CD,
                you may be eligible for the promotional rate by making a
                deposit of new to bank money to the renewing CD that is
                equal to or greater than the new account minimum balance
                requirement. Maximum deposit limits may apply.
                 Promotional CDs will automatically renew at maturity to the
                 same term at the non-promotional (Basic) CD interest rate
                 and APY in effect at the time of renewal unless we notify you
                 otherwise. Promotional CD interest rates and/or Special Offers
                 apply only until the promotional CD’s first maturity date.
             10. Grand Opening Bonus CD Rate: We may offer a special
                 Grand Opening Bonus CD rate at new TD Bank Store
                 locations. If we are offering such a promotion, you must
                 deposit the required initial minimum balance to open the
                 account in money not already on deposit at TD Bank to qualify.
                 The maximum deposit is $1,000,000. The offer is valid for
                 new CD accounts only and does not include IRA CDs. A TD
                 Bank personal checking account is required.
                 Grand Opening Bonus CDs will renew at maturity to the
                 same term at the non-promotional (Basic) CD interest rate
                 and APY in effect at the time of renewal unless we notify
                 you otherwise. Grand Opening Bonus CD interest rate and/
                 or Special Offers apply to the initial CD term only.
             11. Additional Deposits (“IRA Add-Vantage CD” only): You
                 may make additional deposits of not less than $500.00 per
                 deposit at any time during the term up to a maximum of
                 $250,000 in additional deposits.

             Part III: Funds Availability Policy
             Your ability to withdraw funds you have deposited at the Bank
             will be determined according to this policy.
             This disclosure applies to all transaction accounts such as Checking
             and Interest Bearing Checking Accounts, and to Money Market,
             Savings, and Time Accounts.
             The Bank’s general policy is to make funds from your deposits
             available to you no later than the first (1st) Business Day after the
             day we receive your deposit. Electronic direct deposits and wire
             transfers will be available on the day we receive the deposit. Once
             they are available, you can withdraw the funds in cash and we
             will use the funds to pay checks that you have written.


                                              34





             Determining the Availability of a Deposit
             To determine the availability of your deposits, every day is a
             Business Day, except Saturdays, Sundays and federal holidays.
             On Business Days that we are open, the earliest time that we
             stop accepting deposits in our Stores for same-day credit is
             8pm Thus, if you make a deposit with a bank teller before 8pm
             on a Business Day that we are open, we will consider that day
             to be the day of your deposit. However, if you make a deposit
             after 8pm or on a day we are not open, we will consider that
             the deposit was made on the next Business Day we are open.
             If you mail funds to us, the funds are considered deposited on
             the Business Day we receive them. Funds deposited in a night
             depository or Store lockbox are considered deposited on the next
             Business Day the Bank or Store lockbox is open.
             If you make a deposit at a Bank ATM before 8pm on a Business
             Day that we are open, we will consider that day to be the day
             of your deposit. However, if you make a deposit at a Bank ATM
             after 8pm or on a day we are not open, we will consider that the
             deposit was made on the next Business Day we are open. Funds
             from any deposits (cash or checks) made at ATMs we do not own
             or operate may not be available until the fifth (5th) Business Day
             after the day of your deposit.
             The length of the delay varies depending on the type of deposit
             and is explained below:

             Same Day Availability
             Funds from the following deposits are available on the same day
             they are deposited:
             •   Cash deposits made at the Bank’s teller station;
             •   Funds received for deposit by an electronic payment (including
                 ACH credits and transfers);
             •   Wire transfers;
             •   $100.00 from non-cash deposits made at the Bank’s teller
                 station;
             •   $100.00 from deposits made at the Bank’s ATM (for accounts
                 opened longer than 90 days).

             Longer Delays May Apply
             In some cases, we will not make all the funds that you deposit
             by check available at the times shown in this Policy.
             Depending on the type of check you deposit, funds may not be
             available until the second (2nd) Business Day after the day of your
             deposit. The first $200 of your deposit, however, will be available no
             later than the first (1st) Business Day after the day of your deposit.
             If we are not going to make all of the funds from your deposit
             available on the first (1st) Business Day, we will notify you at the
             time you make your deposit. We will also tell you when the funds
             will be available. If your deposit is not made directly to one of our


                                              35





             employees, or if we decide to take this action after you have left the
             premises, we will mail you the notice by the day after we receive
             your deposit. If you will need the funds from a deposit right away,
             you should ask us when the funds will be available.
             In addition, funds deposited by check may be delayed for a longer
             period under the following circumstances:
             •   you deposit checks totaling more than $5,000 on any one
                 day (Note: The first $200 will be made available no later than
                 the first (1st) Business Day after the day of your deposit);
             •   we believe a check you deposited will not be paid;
             •   you re-deposit a check that has been returned unpaid;
             •   you have overdrawn your Account repeatedly, or would have
                 overdrawn your account if checks had been honored in the
                 last six (6) months;
             •   there is an emergency, such as failure of communications
                 or computer equipment. (Note: The first $200 will be made
                 available no later than the first (1st) Business Day after the
                 day of your deposit).
             We will notify you if we delay your ability to withdraw funds for
             any of these reasons, and we will tell you when the funds will be
             available. They will generally be available no later than the seventh
             (7th) Business Day after the day of your deposit.

             Special Rules For New Accounts
             If you are a new Customer, the following special rules may apply
             during the first thirty (30) days your account is open.
             •   Funds from in-Store cash deposits, electronic direct deposits,
                 and wire transfers to your Account will be available on the
                 day we receive the deposit.
             •   The first $100 of your daily in-Store non-cash deposits will
                 be available to you on the day we receive the deposit.
             •   Funds from the first $5,000 of a day’s total deposits of
                 cashier’s, certified, teller’s, traveler’s, and federal, state, and
                 local government checks will be available on the first (1st)
                 Business Day after the day of your deposit.
             •   The excess over $5,000 and funds from all other check
                 deposits will be available no later than the seventh (7th)
                 Business Day after the day of your deposit.
             For new Customers using an ATM, the following additional
             special rules may apply during the first ninety (90) days your
             account is open.
             •   Cash deposits and the first $100 of a check deposit made
                 at a TD Bank ATM will be available to you on the first (1st)
                 business day after the day of your deposit.
             •   Cash deposits made at an ATM the Bank does not own or
                 operate will be available no later than the fifth (5th) business
                 day after the day of your deposit.

                                              36





             •   Check deposits made at an ATM the Bank does not own
                 or operate will be available no later than the seventh (7th)
                 business day after the day of your deposit.

             Holds on Other Funds
             If we accept for deposit or we cash a check that is drawn on
             another bank, we may make funds from the deposit available for
             withdrawal immediately, but delay your availability to withdraw
             a corresponding amount of funds that you have on deposit in
             another Account with us. The funds in the other Account would
             then not be available for withdrawal in accordance with the time
             periods that are described in this policy.

             Non-U.S. Financial Institutions
             We reserve the right to send any checks drawn on a foreign
             financial institution (including Canadian financial institutions) for
             collection. For each item sent, we will assess a collection charge
             plus any collection fees charged to us by other financial institutions
             which process the item as listed in our most recent Personal Fee
             Schedule. While the funds represented by checks that are sent for
             collection are generally available within thirty (30) Calendar Days or
             subject to payment by the Drawee bank, items sent for collection
             will be credited to your Account in U.S. dollars, with the amount
             of U.S. dollars credited calculated using our applicable exchange
             rate that is in effect on the date when we credit the funds to your
             Account and not when the deposit is made. If we do not enter
             any item (Canadian only) for collection, the funds will be available
             no later than the third (3rd) Business Day after the day of deposit.

             Checks or Other Items Returned Subsequent to
             Funds Being Made Available
             If a check or other item you deposited to your Account is returned
             to us unpaid after the funds have been made available to you,
             the amount of the check or other item will be deducted from
             your Account. If there are insufficient funds in your Account,
             we reserve the right to demand payment directly from you and
             to charge you for the overdraft as posted in our most recent
             Personal Fee Schedule.

             Endorsements
             Endorsements on items deposited to your Account are restricted,
             under federal law, to the first 1.5 inches of the back of the check.
             The remaining portion of the check is reserved for endorsements
             by banks. Your endorsement should contain your signature, the
             words “For Deposit Only,” and your Account number. Improper
             endorsements may delay the check collection process and the
             subsequent crediting and availability of funds. While we may accept
             non-conforming endorsements, you agree you will be responsible
             for any losses.




                                              37





             Part IV: Electronic Funds Transfers
             Disclosure
             The Electronic Funds Transfers (“EFT”) we are capable of handling
             are indicated below. Some of these may not apply to your
             Account. Please read this disclosure carefully because it tells you
             your rights and obligations for these transactions. You should
             keep this notice for future reference.
             Use of your ATM or Visa Debit Card may be restricted in certain
             countries due to security risks.
             For security purposes, your card may be cancelled after 13 months
             of inactivity, except for Health Savings Account Debit Cards, which
             may be cancelled after 36 months of inactivity.

             Direct Deposits
             You may make arrangements for certain direct deposits to be
             accepted into your Checking, Savings or Money Market Deposit
             Accounts.

             Pre-authorized Withdrawals
             You may make arrangements to pay certain recurring bills from
             your Checking, Statement Savings or Statement Money Market
             Deposit Accounts.

             Telephone Transfers
             You may make arrangements to have telephone transfers
             between eligible Checking, Statement Savings or Statement
             Money Market Deposit Accounts through our telephone banking
             system.

             Electronic Check Conversions
             Some Point-of-Purchase terminals may provide you the option
             of initiating a one-time automatic debit from your Account by
             authorizing the merchant to obtain the necessary information
             from a check drawn on your deposit account. A check used in
             this way is treated as an EFT and is not a negotiable instrument
             in its own right. The check cannot be subsequently used and
             should be voided.
             You may authorize a merchant or other payee to make a one-
             time electronic payment from your Checking Account using
             information from your check to:
                 (i) Pay for purchases
                 (ii) Pay bills

             ATM Transaction Types
             You may access your Account(s) by ATM using your ATM card
             or Visa Debit Card and Personal Identification Number (PIN) to:
             •   make deposits to Checking, Statement Savings, and
                 Statement Money Market Accounts at TD Bank ATMs;



                                             38





             •   get cash withdrawals and/or transfer funds from and between
                 Checking, Statement Savings, and Statement Money Market
                 Accounts linked to your card;
             •   make envelope-free deposits at many TD Bank ATMs;
             •   get information about the Account balance(s) in the Checking,
                 Statement Savings, and/or Statement Money Market
                 Account(s) linked to your card.
             Note: Some of these services may not be available at all terminals.

             Visa Debit Card Transaction Types
             In addition to the ATM transaction types listed above, with your
             Visa Debit Card, you may:
             •   purchase goods online, via phone or in person, or pay for
                 services wherever Visa Debit Cards are accepted;
             •   get cash from a merchant, if the merchant permits,
                 or from a participating financial institution.
             Note: If a merchant receives authorization for a purchase,
             TD Bank cannot return that transaction unpaid even if your
             account is not in good standing.

             Visa Debit Card Limits
             The standard daily limits (per card) are:
             •   ATM cash withdrawals – $750;
             •   POS (PIN) transactions – $2,000;
             •   Visa signature transactions and Visa cash
                 advances – $5,000 each.

             Visa Platinum Debit Card Limits
             The standard daily limits (per card) are:
             •   ATM cash withdrawals – $1,000;
             •   POS (PIN) transactions – $2,000;
             •   Visa signature transactions – $10,000;
             •   Visa cash advances – $5,000.

             ATM Card Limits
             The standard daily limits (per card) are:
             •   ATM cash withdrawals – $750;

             Personal Identification Number (PIN)
             The PIN issued to you is for your security purposes. The numbers
             are confidential and should not be disclosed to third parties or
             recorded on the card. You are responsible for safekeeping your
             PIN(s). You agree not to disclose or otherwise make your PIN
             available to anyone not authorized to sign on your Account.

             Termination
             You may terminate the Electronic Funds Transfer Agreement
             by calling us and subsequently providing written notice. The
             Bank may terminate the Electronic Funds Transfer Agreement by
             notifying you in writing.
                                             39





             Charges For Electronic Funds Transfers
             We may impose a fee, as disclosed on the Personal Fee Schedule,
             for personal account transactions you conduct at an ATM that
             we do not own or operate. Such transactions are referred to as
             “non-TD” ATM transactions. Fees imposed by TD Bank for non-
             TD ATM transactions will be reflected in your monthly statement.
             For certain account types we will waive the fee for some non-TD
             ATM transactions as disclosed on the Personal Fee Schedule.
             Please note: For non-TD ATM transactions, the institution that
             owns the ATM (or the network) may assess a fee (surcharge) at
             the time of your transaction, including for balance inquiries. For
             some Checking Account types, we will reimburse you for these
             fees at the end of each statement cycle as disclosed on the
             Personal Fee Schedule.
             International ATM Surcharge Fee for Accounts that Qualify
             for Surcharge Refunds: When we process an international ATM
             transaction and the fee is presented separately, we will refund
             the ATM surcharge fee assessed. If we do not receive the fee
             separately, we will refund the surcharge fee assessed if you bring
             us your ATM receipt within 90 calendar days of the transaction.
             Reimbursement is subject to the balance requirements as disclosed
             on the Personal Fee Schedule.
             International ATM Card or Visa Debit Card Transactions:
             The exchange rate between the transaction currency and the
             billing currency used for processing international ATM Card or
             Visa Debit Card transactions is a rate selected by Visa from the
             range of rates available in wholesale markets for the applicable
             central processing date, which may vary from the rate Visa itself
             receives, or the government-mandated rate in effect for the
             applicable central processing date.

             Right To Documentation
             Terminal Transactions
             You can get a receipt at the time you conduct a transaction using
             automated teller machines or point-of-sale terminals, unless your
             transaction totals $15.00 or less.

             Direct Deposits
             If you have arranged to have direct deposits made to your
             Account at least once every sixty (60) Calendar Days from the
             same person or company, you can call us at 1-888-751-9000 to
             find out whether the deposit has been made. With the exception
             of Passbook Savings Accounts, if the only possible transfers to
             or from your Account are direct deposits, you will get a monthly
             statement from us.

             Periodic Statements
             You will get a monthly Account statement from us for your
             Checking, Statement Savings, and/or Statement Money Market

                                            40





             Accounts unless there are no checks written or no electronic
             transfers in a particular month. If your Account is not a Holiday
             Club, Club Saver, IRA, Passbook or CD Account, in all cases you
             will receive a statement at least quarterly, unless we determine
             that your Account has been inactive for more than one year.

             Passbook Accounts Where the Only Possible
             Electronic Funds Transfers Are Direct Deposits
             If you bring your passbook to us, we will record any electronic
             deposits that were made since the last time you brought in your
             passbook. Passbook accounts are not available in all states.

             Notice of Varying Amounts
             If these regular payments may vary in amount, the person (or
             organization) you are going to pay will tell you, at least ten (10)
             Calendar Days before each payment, when it will be made and
             how much it will be. You may choose instead to get this notice
             only when the payment would differ by more than a certain
             amount from the previous payment, or when the amount would
             fall outside certain limits that you set.

             Stop Payment Procedures and Notice of
             Varying Amounts
             Right to Stop Payment and Procedures
             for Doing So
             Pre-authorized transfers from your Account(s) can be
             discontinued, for a fee (see Personal Fee Schedule), by calling
             us at 1-888-751-9000 or by writing to:
             Transaction Services Department
             P.O. Box 1377
             Lewiston, ME 04243-1377
             To be effective, a stop payment request must be received at least
             three (3) Business Days prior to the regularly scheduled payment
             date, and must precisely identify the account number, date and
             amount of the payment, and the payee.
             Your stop payment request will be effective after the request has
             been received by the Bank and the Bank has had a reasonable
             opportunity to act on it. If your stop payment request has been
             made orally, the Bank will send you a written confirmation. If
             your stop payment request is made in writing, you must use
             a form that is supplied by the Bank; this form will constitute
             written confirmation of your request. In either case, it is your
             responsibility to ensure that all of the information supplied on
             your written confirmation is correct and to promptly inform the
             Bank of any inaccuracies.
             Unlike checks, you cannot place stop payments for purchases
             made by telephone, on the Internet, or with your Visa Debit Card.




                                             41





             Liability for Failure to Stop Payment
             of Pre-authorized Transfer
             If you order us to stop one of these payments three (3) Business
             Days or more before the transfer is scheduled, and we do not do
             so, we will be liable for your losses or damages.

              Additional Information Required By Massachusetts Law
              1. Any documentation provided to you which indicates an
                  electronic fund transfer was made shall be admissible as
                  evidence of the transfer and shall constitute prima facie proof
                  that the transfer was made.
              2. Unless otherwise provided in the Agreement, you may not stop
                  payment of electronic fund transfers, therefore you should
                  not employ electronic access for purchases or services unless
                  you are satisfied that you will not need to stop payment.


              Customer Safety Information Required By New York Law
              Each time you use an Automated Teller Machine (ATM) keep
              the following safety tips in mind:
              (a) The activity of the ATM facility is being recorded by a surveillance
                   camera or cameras;
              (b) Close the entry door completely upon entering and exiting;
              (c) Do not permit any unknown persons to enter after regular
                   banking hours;
              (d) Place withdrawal cash securely upon your person before exiting
                   the ATM facility.
              Complaints concerning security in the ATM facility should be
              directed to your bank’s security department at 1-888-751-9000
              or NYS at 1-877-BANK-NYS, and the nearest available public
              telephone should be used to call the police if emergency assistance
              is needed.

              Customer Safety Information Required By New Jersey Law
              Please keep the following safety tips in mind while using an
              automated teller machine:
              (a) Be alert to your surroundings and to defer transactions if
                  circumstances cause you to be apprehensive for your safety;
              (b) Close the entry door of any automated teller machine (ATM)
                  facility equipped with a door;
              (c) Place withdrawn cash securely on your person before exiting
                  any ATM facility
              You should direct any complaints concerning automated teller
              machine security to the Corporate Security and Investigations
              Department of TD Bank at 1-888-751-9000 or to the
              New Jersey Department of Banking at 1-609-272-7272.




                                                42





             Our Liability
             If we do not complete a transfer to or from your Account on time
             or in the correct amount according to our Agreement with you,
             we will be liable for losses or damages. However, there are some
             exceptions. We will NOT be liable for instance:
             1) If, through no fault of ours, you do not have enough money
                in your Account to make the transfer.
             2) If the transfer would go over the credit limit on your overdraft
                line.
             3) If the automated teller machine where you are conducting
                the transfer does not have enough cash.
             4) If the terminal or system was not working properly and you
                knew about the breakdown when you started the transfer.
             5) If circumstances beyond our control prevent the transfer,
                despite reasonable precautions we have taken. Such
                circumstances include telecommunications and power
                outages or interruptions, postal strikes, delays caused by
                payees, fires and floods.
             6) If the funds are subject to legal process or other encumbrances
                restricting such transfer.
             7) If the transfer would result in your daily withdrawal limit being
                exceeded.
             8) If the Bank has reason to believe that you or someone else
                is using the automated teller machine or other electronic
                banking service for fraudulent or illegal purposes.
             9) If you do not give proper, complete or correct instructions
                for the transfer, or you do not follow the procedures in this
                Agreement or any other Agreement with us for requesting
                the transfer.
             10) If your ATM or Visa Debit Card and/or your PIN has been
                 reported lost or stolen, or we have canceled your PIN, your
                 card, or otherwise terminated this Agreement.
             There may be other exceptions stated in our Agreement with you.

             Disclosures of Account Information
             To Third Parties
             In order that your privacy may be protected, we will not disclose
             any information about you or your Account to any person,
             organization, or agency except:
             1) for certain routine disclosures necessary for the completion
                of a transfer or to resolve errors; or
             2) for verification of the existence and condition of your Account
                for a credit bureau or merchant; or
             3) to persons authorized by law in the course of their official
                duties; or
             4) to our employees, auditors, service providers, attorneys or
                collection agents in the course of their duties; or

                                             43





             5) pursuant to a court order or lawful subpoena; or
             6) to a consumer reporting agency; or
             7) to certain third parties with whom we have joint marketing
                agreements; or
             8) to our affiliates as permitted by law; or
             9) by your written Authorization which, for Massachusetts
                customers only, shall automatically expire forty-five (45) days
                after our receipt of your authorization.
             For Massachusetts customers only: If an unauthorized disclosure
             has been made, we must inform you within three (3) days after
             we have discovered that an unauthorized disclosure has occurred.

             Unauthorized Transfers
             Tell us AT ONCE if you believe your card, your PIN, or both has
             been lost, stolen or used without your permission, or if you believe
             that an electronic funds transfer has been made without your
             permission using information from your check. You could lose all
             the money in your Deposit Account, plus your available overdraft
             protection. Telephoning is the best way of keeping your possible
             losses down. If you notify us within two (2) Business Days after
             you learn of the loss or theft of your card or PIN, you can lose no
             more than $50 if someone uses your card or PIN without your
             permission. If you do not notify us within two (2) Business Days
             after you learn of the loss or theft of your card or PIN, and we can
             prove we could have prevented someone from using your Card
             and/or PIN without your permission if you had told us, you could
             lose as much as $500 ($50 if you are a resident of Massachusetts
             and this Agreement is governed by Massachusetts law). You will
             not be liable for unauthorized purchases made with your Debit
             Card when used as if it were a Visa Credit Card. However, you can
             be held liable for fraudulent use of your Card and/or PIN when
             PIN-based transactions are made with your ATM or Debit Card.
             Also, if your statement shows transfers that you did not
             make, notify us at once. If you do not notify us within
             sixty (60) Calendar Days after the statement was mailed to you,
             you may not get back any money you lost after the sixty (60)
             Calendar Days if we can prove that we could have stopped
             someone from taking the money if you had told us in time. (If you
             are a resident of Massachusetts and this Agreement is governed
             by Massachusetts law, the maximum amount of money you could
             lose is $50.) If a good reason (such as a long trip or hospital stay)
             kept you from notifying us, we will extend the time periods.
             If you believe your card and/or your PIN has been lost or stolen,
             someone has transferred or may transfer money from your
             Account without your permission, or a transfer has been made
             using the information from your check without your permission,
             call us at 1-888-751-9000, or write:



                                              44





             Customer Service Department
             Mail Stop NJ5-002-215
             6000 Atrium Way
             Mt. Laurel, NJ 08054
             Business Days: Monday through Friday, excluding federal holidays.

             In Case Of Errors Or Questions About Your
             Electronic Funds Transfer
             If you need information about an electronic funds transfer or if
             you believe there is an error on your bank statement or receipt
             relating to an electronic funds transfer, telephone the Bank
             immediately at 1-888-751-9000 or write to:
             Transaction Services Department
             P.O. Box 1377
             Lewiston, ME 04243-1377
             We must hear from you no later than sixty (60) Calendar Days
             after we sent you the FIRST statement on which the problem or
             error appeared. When contacting the Bank, please provide us
             with the following information:
             1) Tell us your name and Account number.
             2) A description of the error or transaction you are unsure about.
                Please explain as clearly as you can why you believe there is
                an error or why more information is needed.
             3) The dollar amount of the suspected error.
             When making a verbal inquiry, the Bank may ask that you send
             us your complaint in writing within ten (10) Business Days after
             the verbal inquiry. If we ask you to put your complaint or question
             in writing and we do not receive it within ten (10) Business Days,
             we may not provisionally credit your Account.
             We will complete our investigation within ten (10) Business
             Days after we hear from you (or within twenty (20) Business
             Days after we hear from you if your notice relates to a transfer
             that occurred within thirty (30) Calendar Days after your first
             deposit to the Account). If we need more time, however, we
             may take up to forty-five (45) Calendar Days to investigate your
             complaint or question. We may take up to ninety (90) Calendar
             Days to investigate your complaint or question if it relates to a
             transaction you initiated through point-of-sale, from outside the
             United States, or a transaction which occurred within thirty (30)
             Calendar Days after your first deposit to the Account. If we decide
             to do this, we will credit your Account for the amount you think
             is in error within ten (10) Business Days (or, twenty (20) Business
             Days if your complaint or question relates to a transfer which
             occurred within thirty (30) Calendar Days after your first deposit
             to the Account), so that you will have use of the money during
             the time it takes us to complete our investigation.
             We will correct any error promptly after we complete our
             investigation. We will send you a written explanation within three

                                             45





             (3) Business Days after completing our investigation. You may ask
             for copies of the documents that we used in our investigation and
             we must make these available to you for inspection.

             Part V: Substitute Checks
             and Your Rights
             What is a substitute check?
             To improve the way checks are processed, federal law permits
             banks to replace original checks with “substitute checks”. These
             checks are similar in size to original checks with a slightly reduced
             image of the front and back of the original check. The front of
             a substitute check states: “This is a legal copy of your check.
             You can use it the same way you would use the original check.”
             You may use a substitute check as proof of payment just like the
             original check. Some or all of the checks that you receive back
             from us may be substitute checks. This notice describes rights you
             have when you receive substitute checks from us. The rights in
             this notice do not apply to original checks or to electronic debits
             to your Account. However, you have rights under other law with
             respect to those transactions.

             What are my rights regarding
             substitute checks?
             In certain cases, federal law provides a special procedure that
             allows you to request a refund for losses you suffer if a substitute
             check is posted to your Account (for example, if you think that
             we withdrew the wrong amount from your Account or that we
             withdrew money from your Account more than once for the
             same check). The losses you may attempt to recover under this
             procedure may include the amount that was withdrawn from your
             Account and fees that were charged as a result of the withdrawal
             (for example, bounced check fees). The amount of your refund
             under this procedure is limited to the amount of your loss or the
             amount of the substitute check, whichever is less. You are also
             entitled to interest on the amount of your refund if your Account
             is an interest-bearing Account. If your loss exceeds the amount
             of the substitute check, you may be able to recover additional
             amounts under other law. If you use this procedure, you may
             receive up to $2,500 of your refund (plus interest if your Account
             earns interest) within 10 Business Days after we received your
             claim and the remainder of your refund (plus interest if your
             Account earns interest) not later than 45 Calendar Days after
             we received your claim. We may reverse the refund (including
             any interest on the refund) if we later are able to demonstrate
             that the substitute check was correctly posted to your Account.

             How do I make a claim for a refund?
             If you believe that you have suffered a loss relating to a substitute
             check that you received and that was posted to your Account,
             please contact us at 1-888-751-9000. You must contact us

                                              46





             within 40 Calendar Days of the date that we mailed (or otherwise
             delivered by a means to which you agreed) the substitute check
             in question or the Account statement showing that the substitute
             check was posted to your Account, whichever is later. We will
             extend this time period if you were not able to make a timely claim
             because of extraordinary circumstances. Your claim must include:
             •   A description of why you have suffered a loss (for example,
                 you think the amount withdrawn was incorrect);
             •   An estimate of the amount of your loss;
             •   An explanation of why the substitute check you received is
                 insufficient to confirm that you suffered a loss; and
             •   A copy of the substitute check and/or the following
                 information to help us identify the substitute check: check
                 number, the name of the person to whom you wrote the
                 check, the amount of the check and the date posted on your
                 statement.

             Part VI: Night Depository Agreement
             This Agreement governs the use of the night depository service of
             TD Bank, N.A. after September 1, 2011. By using this service after
             September 1, 2011, you agree to the terms of this Agreement. In
             this Agreement, the terms “you” and “your” refer to the Depositor
             and the terms “we”, “us” and “our” refer to TD Bank, N.A.

             Bags And Containers
             a) Disposable Bags – Effective September 1, 2011, all new
                Depositors using the night depository service must make
                deposits using the two-part disposable bags supplied by us
                or by our vendor. The bags must only be used for the deposit
                of currency, coin and negotiable instruments owned by you.
             b) Locking Bags, Zipper Bags, Envelopes and Other Containers
                – Existing Depositors using the night depository service may
                continue to use their existing locking bags, envelopes or
                other containers.
             c) All Bags, Envelopes and Containers – You must record the
                contents of each bag, envelope or container on a deposit slip
                supplied or approved by us and place the deposit slip in the
                bag, envelope or container.

             Method Of Deposit
             Deposits made pursuant to this Agreement are to be either (i)
             placed in a night depository facility (“night depository”) at one
             of our offices, or (ii) given directly to our employee at one of our
             offices during regular business hours without waiting for our
             employee to verify the amount of the deposit (“subject to count
             deposit”), or (iii) delivered to us via an armored carrier or by a
             courier service (a “Carrier”).




                                             47





             Receipt Of Bags And Keys
             You acknowledge receipt of any bank-supplied bags and any keys
             necessary to operate the exterior door of the night depository.
             Any lost keys must be reported to us immediately.

             Third Party Carriers
             We may arrange for and pay for a Carrier to collect deposits from
             you and deliver the deposits to us for processing. For any deposits
             made via a Carrier, you acknowledge and agree that (i) we do
             not own or control the Carrier, the Carrier’s employees or the
             Carrier’s facilities; (ii) the Carrier retains discretion to determine
             what customers and geographic areas it will serve and maintains
             the ultimate responsibility for scheduling, movement and routing;
             (iii) the Carrier acts as your exclusive agent when items are in
             transit and is responsible for the bags and their contents during
             transit; and (iv) the Carrier is responsible for maintaining adequate
             insurance covering theft, employee fidelity and other in-transit
             losses. The items transported by the Carrier are considered
             deposited only when actually received by us and verified and
             credited to your account.

             Liability of Bank
             You expressly agree that the use of the night depository service
             is at your own risk. We will not be responsible for any loss or
             damage sustained by you in the use of the night depository
             service resulting from any cause whatsoever, including mechanical
             defects or a malfunction of the night depository itself, unless such
             loss or damage is directly caused by our negligence or willful
             misconduct. In no event will we be liable for damages resulting
             from causes beyond our control or for consequential, special or
             punitive damages or for any lost profits.

             Contents Not Insured
             We do not insure the contents of any bag, envelope or container.

             Processing Deposits
             You give us authority to open the bags and process for deposit any
             coin, currency or negotiable instruments found in the bags. You
             acknowledge and agree that the deposit slip you provide is not
             conclusive as to the contents of the bags and the determination
             of our employee is conclusive as to the contents of the bags.
             Our Funds Availability Policy, as it may be amended from time
             to time, applies to all deposits. We may take up to two Business
             Days following the day the bag is received to count the cash in
             the bag and to credit your account based on our verified cash
             count. We will use ordinary care and adhere to the reasonable
             commercial standards of the banking business in connection with
             the receipt and processing of the contents of the bags.




                                              48





              Fees And Service Charges
              You agree to pay all fees associated with this service as described
              in the Personal Fee Schedule. We may change those fees from
              time to time by giving you notice of such changes in the manner
              specified in the Deposit Account Agreement or as may be required
              by applicable law.

              Termination
              This Agreement may be terminated by either you or by us
              immediately by giving oral or written notice to the other. Upon
              termination of this Agreement, you agree to return any key(s) to
              the night depository facility.

              Entire Agreement; Conflict Of Terms:
              Governing Law
              This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement between you
              and us with respect to the use of the night depository service. In
              the event of any conflict between any provision of this Agreement
              and any provision of the Deposit Account Agreement relative to
              the night depository service, the provision of this Agreement shall
              control. This Agreement shall be governed by the state laws that
              apply to your primary deposit account.




                                              49





              General Information


              www.tdbank.com




                         | Equal Housing Lender   62-7340 (06/13)