

VENTURE AGREEMENT

1. The undersigned parties agree to form a Maine limited liability company (“LLC”), to be called
Dialogo, with membership interests owned initially as follows: 49% by Lilhan Santiago Bauza (“LSB”),
a Massachusetts resident, and 51% by Direct Merchants S.A., Inc (“DMSA”), a New Jersey
Corporation, for the purpose of jointly developing Spanish language and bilingual print and media
business (‘‘the Business”). The LLC will be managed by a board of directors, consisting of two
representatives from DMSA and one from LSB. Lillian Santiago Bauza will carry the title of Publisher.
She will be responsible for editonial content and for managing the day-to-day operations of the venture,
including recruiting and hiring employees and contractors and, along with DMSA management,
developing the long-term strategy of the joint venture. DMSA acknowledges that LSB will not
contribute any cash to initiate the LLC. LSB acknowledges all expenditures must be done with the
concurrence of DMSA. DMSA shall contribute the initial capital to launch the LLC in an amount that
DMSA deems appropriate (including through travel, promotional costs, legal fees, accounting fees,
billing fees and the labor of management and staff of DMSA). The owners will sign an agreement giving
each other a right of first refusal on any proposed transfer of membership interests in the LLC and
requiring approval by the Board of Directors issuing any additional membership interests. All profits
that the board decides to distribute, both ordinary and capital, will be distributed to the members in
proportion to their membership interest. The board shall distribute each year at least enough cash to
owners to cover the owners’ U.S. tax liability for LLC profits in such year if any.

2. DMSA and LSB agree that they shall through the LLC jointly pursue the Business. LSB
acknowledges and agrees, however, that DMSA ts an on- going enterprise, and its principals individually
and through other enterprises, have a variety of business interests that are not and will not be part of the
LLC’s business, whether similar to the LLC’s Business or not. LSB further acknowledges and agrees
that neither DMSA nor its principals shall have any obligation to assign existing, or originate new
business, advertising contracts, marketing contracts, or any other contracts for the benefit of the LLC,
or to assign existing or originate new advertising opportunities or clients for the benefit of the LLC, and
that DMSA and its principals may retain existing and originate new media opportunities, advertising
contracts and clients for its own benefit, whether directly or indirectly. Without diminishing DMSA’s
rights under the foregoing language, DMSA does agree that it intends to use diligent efforts to direct
appropriate business to the Company in furtherance of the Company’s goals. However, LSB shall
employ diligent efforts to originate new media and advertising contracts and clients for the LLC and
neither LSB nor its principals shall provide such services, directly or indirectly for itself or any other
entity or person to the extent it relates to the Business.

3. The LLC will initially rely on the staffs of DMSA and Dialogo .
 FROM iDMSA InG@ase 3:05-cv-30076-MAPFAXDOcurhara7t5:33

FROM 3? DMGA Inc. FRX NO.

|

01/09/2005 08:28 TEL 4135339487 DIALOGO: BILINCUE

: SPOS 765143 Jun. @3 2aa @2igipm Pe

4. Assounts paid to the LLC by clients shall be distributed as follows: Gest to feimburne any ou

of pocket costs; sccond to DMSA to repay the initial capital to lainch the LIC> third. to. owners

to’ cover the owners’ U. S, tax liability for LLC profits in such year, if any; finally aiy remaiaing

amounts to be distributed by the Board at its discretion to the members in peopottion to their

respective membership interedta. No member shall incur costs or expensey cin behalf of the LLC,

or commnit the LIUC to any cosis of expenses, except in accordence with the approved budget. it is

the Domd of Dibemes nee wilt barron, + but thet may’ our in thi Sunure Hf eppreved by |
rs)

«Has ried deeaie re ates tae aves ere ee

Filed 04/26(2006 zabkage:2.0%2 p3

Boz

5, DASA sed LS acing a age tht fr id coc iuddren yi -

the LLC in connection with the Business are to be kept confidential... Neither DMSA: nor LSB
will disclose to any person or entity, directly or indirectly, any” Propelotary Information (as
Peminatt defined )selaog the LIC Busines witout the plo wales naar of be LLC
or purposes of this Agreement, "Propristary Information” meat all attvertiting mad sibscription
client lists, advertising and subscription client prospects, marketing titornbaiion and dats, ‘proditct
information, strstegic or technical Infoxmstion, financial information,  supplisr intvehation,
billing sates and client provided infuerostion, docursents and data’

6. in furtherance of tia Agreement, DMSA and LSB shall execute execute and ver o the feo
docirate, all of which atal be eronetedt with this muesacn wie oe Pee
stmdard teemas and condirioos. articles of organization of LLC:

Va cE “he, sadeoen gene

* operating agreement of LLC; vo,
;
ad ‘ “a : , -t yay *, . * ss “eb ea
. tf at -. ra we ’
i . ’ er ae
;

an

+

IN wines ‘WHERROE. in partes thi Agreement ave exe tla Aetna
_ One oe more, sountaspari(s) as of the date first written below: |

1
r* . Mos
a af .
* ah ote
of 3
oe ee
‘ . . car
tae '
,
rT
’ ‘
‘
,
' i
4 ‘
: 64k 3
‘ ’ t ‘ ’
4 +
r a ann He *
a? .
,
' .
% . at ’
. cf
wo yt
* . ‘
1
‘
‘ a? ‘ en
<
‘ ; res wh,
‘ . ‘ a
% eo, 6
’ ‘ ‘
' a ae
* . 1 c
ry é
.
® ‘
, ’
' ’
' i.
‘ '
‘
