



                                                                                     ,




St, Jude Children's
Research Hospital


                                                                                                              October 2, 2007
                                              Materials Transfer Agreement
      Dr. Carl June
      Professor of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine
      University of Pennsylvania School of Medicine
      Room 5544 BRB
      421 Curie boulevard        •
      Philadelphia, PA 191048160

       Dear Dr. June:

      St. Jude Children's Research Hospital cSt. Judd') agrees to provide you and your Institute, the
      Trustees of the University of Pennsylvania (collectiveiy referred to herein as "Recipionfl, with
      materials developed at St. Jude. Before receiving the materials, we ask that you and your Institute
      agree to the following terms and conditions:

              1.        The biological materiels to be provided to Recipient are the anti-CD19-138;
                        chimeric receptor construct, including any progeny, portions, unmoditteci
                        derivatives and any accompanying know..how or data ("Materials"). The Recipient
                        acknowledges that the Materials are or may be the subject of patent(s), pending
                        patent application(s) or other proprietary right of St. Jude. Except as provided In
                        this Agreement, no express or Implied lloenses or other rights are provided to the
                        Recipient under any patents, patent applications, trade secrets or other
                        proprietary rights of St. Jude, including any altered forms of the Materials made
                        by St. Jude.

             2.         Recipient accepts sole responsibility for any and all receipt, storage, handling.
                        disposition, transfer and uses of the Materials In compliance with aft applicable
                        Federal, Slate and local laws, rules, regulations and guidelines including, but not
                        limited to Federal and State laws rola 'Mg to the protection ,of human reseerch
                        subjects.

              3.        The Recipient further agrees that the Materials ere provided for the sole purpose of
                        allowing Recipient to uae Materials to produce a molecular lentiviral vector clone
                        incorporating Materials in compliance with GMP for appilcation in ex viva aurologcus
                        cell modification In qUantitles sufficient .to complete a Phase I clinical trial to be
                        conducted at the Recipient's clinical facilities. Without limiting the foregoing,
                        Recipient acknowledges and agrees that (I) the Materials may net be taken or sentto
                        anotherinstitution without written permission from St. Jude and (II) the Materials may
                        riot be provided to a commercial entity, and may not be used in research that Is
                        subject to consulting or licensing obligatons to another party (other than those
                        obligations imposed upon grantee institutions of the U.S. government) without
                        express written consent by St. Jude.

             4.         Recipient agrees to provide St. Jude with a copy of any publication that contains
                        experimental results. obtained from the use of the Materials, and will acknowtedge S.




                                          1/4;t:30i1-1,-,..
                                          -                                      1   t srafl..4.1.5.,13-!St

                                                      •       • • •••-   •




                                                                             3








  Pave 2


              Jude as the source of the Materials.

       5.     Recipient acknowledges St Jude's ownership of the Materials and any progeny
              thereef. If Recipient files a pateet application or commercializes 2 product which
              contains a portion of the Materials, Is derived from the Materials, or whieh could not
              have been produced but for the use of the Materials. Recipient agrees to contact St.
              Jude to determine c ■wnership interests, if any, St. Jude may have in such patent
              application or commercial Re:Lela:I. Ownerehip shall farm inventorship according to
              US patent law, Further, Rectpient shall not publish or disclose the results of such
              research using the Materiele without submitting the proposed pubIireation or
              disclosure to St Jude at least thirty (30) days prior to the submission for publication
              or disclosure to allow St. Jude to revieW et...1th publiottion or discieSure for the
              disclosure of St. Jude proprietary infonnation. .
       5.     The Materials previded are experimental in nature, and are provided WITHOUT ANY
              WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING WITHOUT UMITATION
              WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTASILITY AND FITNE$S FOR A PARTICULAR USE.
              ST. JUDE MAKES NO REPRESENTATION AND PROVIDE NO WARRANTY
              THAT THE U5E OF THE MATERIALS WILL NOT INFRINGE ANY PATENT OR
              OTHER PROPRIETARY RIGHT. IN NO EVENT SHALL ST. JUDelE UABLE FOR
              ANY INDIRECT. INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES, EVEN IF
              ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES,

       7.     Recipient agrees to indemnify, defend and hold harmless St. Jude and the Amerioan
             Lebanese Syrian Associated Charities (ALSAC) and their respective corporate
             affiliates and Boards of Governors, trt.isteete tenet:tore, officers, medical and
             professional staff. employees, representatives and agents and their respective
             seccessors, heirs and assigns againat any and all claims, demands or legal
             cateees of action of any nature whatsoever (including without [Imitation legal
             expenees), arising Out of or reerted to Reciplenfe acceptance, use an d disposal of the
             Materials and their progeny or derivatives. Including but not limited to any and all
             claims for perscreal Injury or death,
       8,    ReCiplent shalt maintain liability Insurance on an occurrence basis, or ecleirne meee
             including tail coverage. in the amount of not lees than One Million ($1, 00e,000)
             dollars per claim and Three Million ($1,000,000) dollars aggregate.

       9.    Retipient shall provide St Jude, upon request, wile a Certificate of insurance from
             ite insurer (i) stating that the insurance coverage set forth In section 8 is in lull force
             and effect, and (ie premising te provide St. Jude with Thirty (30) days prior written
             notice of cancellation or reduetion in coverage.

       10.   St. Jude may temenate this MTA if Recipient breaches any term end fails to cure
             such breach within thirty (30) days after written notice thereof. Upon such
             termination, Recipient will immediately cease use of the Materials and all progeny
             thereof, and return all Materials and progeay te SL Jude, Sections 5, 5aed 7 shall
             survive termiriation or expiration of this MTA.

             Thie MTA may only be modified In writing signed by an authorized representative of
             each party. No express or implied waiver by a party of any breach hereunder shalt In
             any way be, or be construed as, a waiver of any subsequent ereach. in the event
             that any provision of this MTA is held by re oourt of competent jurisdiction to be
             invalid or unenforceable, such provision will be stricken from this MTA and the
             remaining provisions shall remain in full force and effect lathe extent permitted by
             law.




                                                  4


Page


If the terms and conditions set forth above are acceptable, please return one copy to Esther Allay in
the Office of Technology Licensing after it has been signed by you and by an authorized official of
your institution, and retain the other copy for your files. The Materials will be forwarded to you upon
receipt of the signed letter.
                                                               Edward Pieters, PhD.
Regards,                                                       Associate Director
                                                               Research Agreements
                                                               Office of Research Services
J. Scott Elmer                                                 University of Pennsylvania
Director, Office of                                            P221 Franklin Building
Technology Licensing                                           3451 Walnut Street
                                                               Philadelphia, Pa, 19104-6205
Accepted and Agreed:                                   Accepted and Agreed:


                                                                                  /P tee
                                                       Institution Official (The Trustees of the
Recipient Sci    1st
                                                       University of Pennsylvania)


       IVO o
Date                                                   Name


                                                       Title


                                                       Date




                                                         5