




                       Exhibit A

1




                                                                                      -




    St. Jude Children's
    Research Hospital



                                                                                                          December 10, 2003
                                        Collaboration and Meterials Transfer Agreement
           Dr. Carl June
           Professor of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine
           University of Pennsylvania School of Medicine
           Room 554 BRB
           421 Curie Boulevard
           Philadelphia, PA 19104-6160
           Deer Dr. June;
           This Agreement, effective upon signing, governs an arrangement whereby Dr, Dario Campana of St.
           Jude Children's Research Hospital, inc e ("St. Jude") agrees to provide biological material that is
           proprietary to St. Jude, for use In a collaborative research study with Dr. Carl June ("Recipient
           Scientist') of th University of Pennsylvania ("Recipient"), subject to the terms and conditions set
           forth below.
                                   Tr.:stees of the Ur::,:.„.ny 0:
                   1.       The biological material to be provided to Recipient Scientist is the anti-CD19-BB-.;
                            chirnerio T-eell receptor construct, Including any progeny, portions, unmodified
                            derivatives and any accompanying know-how or data ('Material"). Legal title to the
                            Material shall remain with St. Jude. The Recipient acknowledges that the Material is
                            or maybe the subject of a patent application. Except as provided in this Agreement,
                            no express or implied licenses or other rights are provided to the Recipient under
                            any patents, patent applications, trade secrets or other proprie tary rights of St. Jude,
                            including any altered forms of the Material made by St. Jude.
                  2.        The Material is for use by Recipient Scientist or persone dIrectly supervised by
                            Recipient Scientist. The Material may net be transferred or taken to any ether
                            laboratory or made available to any other person or third party, but is to remain under
                            the immediate and direct control of Redplent Scientist.
                   3.       Recipient Scientist agrees that the Material will only be used to create a lentiviral
                            chimeric, T-cell receptor construct to be used in pre-clinical studies.
                  4.        The Material may not be used in humans and will be stored, used, and disposed of
                            in accordance with applicable law and regulations, The Material will not be used
                            for any commercial purpose.
                   5.       St. Jude retains the unresteicted rig ht to distribute the Material to other commercial or
                            noncommercial entities.

                   6.       Recipient agrees that any publications that result from the collaborative research
                            study between St. Jude and Recipient Scientist using the Material          be jointly
                            published in accordance with academic standards.
                   7.       The transfer of the Material grants te Recipient no rights In the Material other than
                            those specifically set forth in the Agreement. Thls agreement may be terminated •
                            upon thirty (30) clays written notice by either party to the other. Upon termination of




                        332 N,34-t1 Liwddnk Stre". mcinoli::. TN .1 ,3105 2 .7 '.)4 I 1901 .49;! . .DIM Iwww.Ykitorl,'.




                                                                       1

2








                                                         •

                     the agreement, Recipient shall destroyall unused Materials.

             a.      Recipient shall not commercialize any product that contains Material without the prior
                     written approval of St. Jude. The Recipient is free to file patent application(s)
                     claiming Inventions made by Recipient through use of the Material but agrees to
                     notify St. Jude within sixty (60) days of filing any patent application which claims
                     subject matter that contains or incorporates the Material or which claims a method of
                     manufacture or use of the Material. Recipient grants to St. Jude a raw-exclusive,
                     royalty-free license to use for non-commercial purposes any inventions that arise
                     from the use of the Materials. INVT.IVTOITSHir tm,Lt. ls. PVTtlf/11 / 16`E'7„.. 1/9
                                                         C C410 WC, TO tr'S p -rrmr LA W
             9.      The Material provided is experimental in nature, and it Is provided WITHOUT ANY i14 11
                     WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION
                     WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FORA PARTICULAR USE. /
                      St. Jude MAKES NO REPRESENTATION AND PROVIDES NO WARRANTYTHAT
                     THE USE OF THE MATERIAL WILL NOT iNFRINGE ANY PATENT OR OTHER
                     PROPRIEJARYBIGHT--.
             10.     Except to the extent prohibited by taw, the Recipient assumes all Rability for
                     damages that may arise from its use, storage or disposal of the Materials. St. Jude
                     and corporate affiliates of St. Jude and their respective boards of Governors,
                     Directors, officers. staff, representatives and agents will not be Uableto the Recipient
                     for any damages, expenses (Including without limitation legai expenses), losses,
                     claims, demands, suit brother actions (colleottvely hereinafter nelaims") made by the
                     Recipient, or made against the Recipient byany other party, due to or arising from
                     the use, storage or disposal of the Materials by the Recipient, except to the odent
                     such Claims are solely caused by the gross negligence or willful misconduct of St.
                     Jude.
     If Recipient Scientist and Recipient agree to the above, please sign and have an authorized official
     of Redpient sign and return a copy of this letter to Esther Allay In the Office of Technology
     Licensing.
     Sincerely,



      • Scott Eimer
     Director
     Office of Technology Licensing

     WeeCedind-A66-efried -


     Dr. Carl June

     Date
         [VA/                                                                Name      dini7
                                                                                        -   1111
                                                                                             4410IRY
                                                                                        142,68  ,10.1n:a11
                                                                                                     J,Fla
                                                                                                 ntoloctu  "nor




                                                                                /2/17/03
                                                                            Date




                                                         2