

EXHIBIT A


MASTER ROYALTY AND USE AGREEMENT
by and among
CLEARWIRE SPECTRUM HOLDINGs IT LLC
and

HISPANIC INFORMATION AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS NETWORK, INC.

Dated as of October 4, 2006

Th361G19.3




TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
ARTICLE I. RELATIONSHIP SUMMARY ouuu...ccccecccccccecceceeeecssececeeesenecsceseeceeeecesevaeecaes 6
Section 1.01. OVELVICW 0... cescecsecenereeseeseesstesscessesensceseecseecseesssecsecesssensssesesseeerseaeeneees 6
Section 1.02. Overview of Mechanics and Structure of Agreements ..............::0000 6
Section 1.03. Scope and Nature of Clearwire Group.......ccccccccccscsseesseseeeeesserseseeeae 8
ARTICLE II. ECONOMIC ROYALTIES ..0000.. ccc cecceeseseseseseesscenseneseeeeeaseceeceeesssesecsenees 10
Section 2.01. Aggregate EBS Spectrum Capacity Economic Royalties............0..... 10
ARTICLE II. ACCESS RIGHT ROYALTIES 00000. cceccccsceesesseesseseceecavevseveossneetens 10
Section 3.01. Access Right Royalties .........0.ccccccccccssececsccenseceeseecescessecsesesecssenssneers 10
Section 3.02. Cost-Free Educational Accoumnts...0.......00ccccccccceesccsceseeeescsccessceseessaceee 10
Section 3.03. Educational Reservation Basic Cost-Free Education Accounts ........ 11
Section 3.04. Additional Cost-Free Educational Account .........0.00.cccccceecceeeesseeeee 11
Section 3.05. Licensee MVNO. ...0....ceccecceesesscesseseeesseeeeeencsscesecsceceesesscessessenusesssessee 12
Section 3.06. Access to Educational End User Devices ....0......cccecceeceeeseceeeseceneeeee 13
Section 3.07. Sharing of Features and Service Sets.......0..cccceccceececeeeseseseessereseees 13
Section 3.08. Preferred Content Provider ...........0.ccccccccscccccessesceeseccsesecceseneccenerseraees 13
Section 3.09. Limited Reciprocity ACCESS ........ccccccccesccsscescesecesesteesecesecereeseevaresenee 14
ARTICLE IV. CLOSING MECHANICS; ESCROW ........cccccccceccccsceecececeeceeseressseneresereees 14
Section 4.01. Deliveries at Execution of this Agreement ........0.00000000ccceeeeeeeeeeeeeee 14
Section 4.03. EBS Spectrum Capacity IUA Closing(s .......0..00..cceccceeeeccceeeeeeeneee 15
Section 4.04. Closing Site/Mechanics ...........ccccccccceseccccscesecesesecesseeseceseesscesscsseeseees 16
Section 4.05. Further ASSurances...............ccccccesesecessseceensecesesecerseecesssseesensere ceseeeeensas 16
ARTICLE V. REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES OF LICENSEE.................. 17
Section 5.01. Organization and Good Standing...........cececcceescesccssceesceeseseeeteceneens 17
Section 5.02. Authorization of Agreement ..........000ccccceesccessssssscessssscesseveseseneaeens 17
Section 5.03. No Conflict... eeeecceecccescecsceessecssenscesssesscnsecesseseaceseecescreccseeeseueeaaes 17
Section 5.04. Litigation 0... eesecseceesesseseescesescecsecessencesenessensesseccseseessceneseessesuvarens 18
Section 5.05. Compliance with Laws; Permits -..0.......cccccccccccecessecsseecsseseenevanenesstene 18
Section 5.07. |S) £0) os tc 18
Section 5.08. Km0wled Be ooo... eee ceeccecsecceeseceessseeceseecensecesseceessssessscaseresseesssesereneece 18
ARTICLE VI. REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES OF CLEARWIRE............. 19
Section 6.01. Organization and Good Standing..........0.cceccecececeseecesesesessseeseeeees 19
Section 6.02. Authorization of Agreement ..0..00.00..cc cece ccscecceseccnssesssecesasrenseneee 19
Section 6.05. No Conflict... ccc ecceccecseceseecscsesseesseeseeseceseeseceesescenscenssenetssseteseeessens 19
Section 6.06. Lift atin eee eee ecceesceseessescecscesscencsesesneessesessesesecacesseesecsssasecssesssesavene 20
A-2
10.3.06

71361919.3
 ARTICLE VII.

ARTICLE IX.

ARTICLE X.

ARTICLE XI.





a
Section 6.07. Compliance with Laws; Permits ...........c:cccsscececseee vevetenesecssecerseenees 20
Section 6.08. Brokers o0..0.eceeeecceeececceeneeecsneceseecesceeesaceeecaseeeesuesensaececensaeeceeseeseensesesens 20
COVENANTS 00... cecceeceeccetececeeseeseesecescececasesseseseseecaceseccsaseseeeneecsesenseserseees 20
Section 7.01. Consents and Approvals ..0.......ecceceeseseceecceeseeesseeetecenesereteceseeeecesneens 20
Section 7.02. Notice of Breach .00.....cceeccecccceeseceeseecaeeceseceesecessecasececsensseuensasesneecaes 2)
Section 7.04. Maintenance of FCC Qualifications -.0.......00..cccccccccceceeenecesectesereeeens 21
Section 7.05. Assignment of FCC Licenses............ccccceecsccseeeeecceececeesssseeesstecsseseeneees 22
Section 7.06. Other FCC Requirement........0.......ececeeceeeceeeseeseeeseeeneee eevtecessneeesneetees 22
Section 7.08. Fees and Taxes ........ccccscccescccsesesecessseeeeeeceseeesceseeeesaseessesstecseesesneseneaes 22
Section 7.09. Best Efforts for Duration of Relationship ...........0.0.:c::cccsceeceeeeeeeeees 22
INDEMNIPICATION. o.oo cccccecsscceceeeesecesceenseeceseceneeecaseeeesatescauesecseeesneeees 22
Section 9.01. Indemnification ...........ceceeccescesscsseececneesceseecaceseseseessesaeeesseessecccersecsaeeas 22
Section 9.02. Determination of Damages ...........-sccecscesesecesseeeseeenscecensaecenneesesaeenaes 23
Section 9.03. Limitations on Indemnification for Breaches of
Representations and Warranties.........0.....eeceeceeeeeeeececeecescoeeeeeeeseeneters 24
Section 9.04. Indemmnification Procedures -.............ccccecessseeeccceenccesseeessseeececenseeenees 24
TERMINATION ..00. oc cceccecceeccescecceesneeseeeseeeeesecssecseessseestecsscecsnesenscesseeeeeeas 25
Section 10.01. — Expiration; Termimation..............ccccccceccecesseseceeececceneceaceesecesssessesseens 25
Section 10.02. —- Defaults 2. cecccssescecseesseceeesneeneseeessseeasceasenssecaeseesaeesseetaneceseees 25
GENERAL PROVISIONS . 0. cccceccecessceseceneceeesseeeaseneeseeecsaeeecseeecesessesenses 26
Section 11.01. | Payment of Sales, Use or Similar Taxes...........ccccccescceseseeesssessseeens 26
Section 11.02. Survival of Representations and Warranties.............:..::cccccscsseseseeeeee 26
Section 11.04. Entire Agreement; Amendments and Waivers ..............cccccccsceseeesees 26
Section 11.05. —»- Goverming Law ..........cescesceccescceeecesnceeceseeeceeateseceseeeenaeeeenseeeecseeceees 27
Section 11.06. | Table of Contents and Headings .....2.......ccccecceeccceceeeneeesceenneeessennees 27
Section 11.07. Notices .2..eceeceeeeeceeesccescencenecensececeeseeesesseeseesceceecceseeesassesseeeseesereaees 27
Section 11.08. Publicity oo... eee ceecesesceseneneeseeseescescessecaecneesseeesevsecessenseenseeseeses 28
Section 11.09. Severability 2... ccececccsecesececsssseeessceceneeeeseceenseeecensseesecsseeeessceeseaes 28
Section 11.10. | Binding Effect; Assignment.........0...0...cc:cccsccseesccsecesececesreseeseeseeees 28
Section 11.11. —§ Remedies... cecceccsscseeesesecesssesececeneesseneeesesseseeeesesaseeseeeeesenseeeeeeaeenss 28
Section 11.12. Dispute Resolution Procedurre..............cccccccccscesceesceseeenseeececesceceeeneeeee 28
Section 11.13. - Counterparts... cece eee ceeececececeneeeeeseseeneesncccenscenecensescenssensestenseaee 31
Section 11.14. Confidentiality 0.0.0... ccccc ccc ccecescescesnecececoeesnsecaseseceseececseenseesesenanes 31
Section 11.15. | Non-Disclosure of Shared Information.......0.....ccccccscccssecsseseneeeeteeeee 31
 YT.

OY.

71361919.3



LIST OF EXHIBITS
Definitions and Interpretation
Form of IUA
Form of Stock Pledge Agreement
Form of Clearwire Certificate

Form of Licensee Certificate

LIST OF SCHEDULES

Schedule of all Licenses, Licensee’s data, applicable Geographic Markets and GSAs,
existing use agreements and Initial Spectrum Capacity

Licensee Schedule


MASTER ROYALTY AND USE AGREEMENT

MASTER ROYALTY AND USE AGREEMENT (“Agreement”), dated as of October 4,
2006 (the “Effective Date”) by and among Hispanic Information and Telecommunications
Network, Inc. (“Licensee”), and Clearwire Spectrum Holdings II LLC, a Nevada limited liability
company (“Clearwire”). (Each of the foregoing is referred to as a “Party” and both of the
foregoing are referred to collectively as the “Parties”.) Certain defined terms used in this
Agreement, and rules of interpretation applicable to this Agreement, are contained in Exhibit I
hereto.

RECITALS:

WHEREAS, the Licensee has been granted certain licenses (as they may be modified and
renewed, the “FCC Licenses”) by the Federal Communications Commission (the “FCC”)
authorizing it to engineer and operate specified Educational Broadband Service (“EBS”)
channels (including any associated J- and K-Group channels, the “Channels”) in the Geographic
Markets and covering an area having the population determined on the basis of 2000 census data,
and providing the number of megahertz of total capacity (measured post-transition, excluding J
and K block spectrum) multiplied by this population number (“MHzPops”’), all as identified on
Schedule A;

WHEREAS, subject to the Communications Act of 1934, as amended (the
“Communications Act’), and FCC rules, regulations and policies (the “FCC Rules”), an EBS
station’s excess capacity may be used for commercial purposes (the “Commercial Spectrum

Capacity”);

WHEREAS, Licensee’s ability to provide services to the non-profit community will be
enhanced by expanding the geographic reach of its platform through making the commercial
capacity associated with agreed FCC Licenses available to Clearwire, and providing services to
the non-profit community on Clearwire’s broadband network;

WHEREAS, Clearwire believes that entering into a relationship with Licensee has
several benefits to Clearwire, in securing a source of spectrum capacity for the future and
facilitating the branding of the Clearwire mark through the services provided by Licensee in the
non-profit community;

WHEREAS, Licensee desires to make available to Clearwire, and Clearwire desires to
have access to, the Commercial Spectrum Capacity that is identified on Schedule A (the “Initial
Spectrum Capacity”), and any additional Commercial Spectrum Capacity of Licensee that is
accepted by Clearwire and made subject to an IUA as provided in this Agreement (the “Future
Spectrum Capacity”), all in accordance with the terms of this Agreement;

4.

71361919.3


WHEREAS, under this Agreement Licensee receives consideration to facilitate the
transmission of mstructional programming to schools and public organizations and to facilitate
instructional broadband spectrum development for its educational instruction network;

WHEREAS, the bundle of value comprised of the EBS Economic Royalties and the
Access Right Royalties (collectively referred to as the “Total Consideration’) is central to
Licensee’s efforts to advance the transmission of its programming and to develop an
instructional broadband spectrum network, in each case utilizing the Clearwire National
Platform, including the ability to use Clearwire as a single source access vendor under the IUAs,
and the I[UAs and this Agreement would not have been executed but for all of the elements of the
Total Consideration;

WHEREAS, Clearwire desires to have access to the Commercial Spectrum Capacity to
the extent permitted by FCC Rules and the terms of this Agreement, for the operation of its
business, and the Parties recognize that the success of Clearwire’s business plan depends on its
access to the Commercial Spectrum Capacity (among other factors), and the Licensee desires
Clearwire to have full access rights to the Commercial Spectrum Capacity permitted under FCC
Rules and the terms of this Agreement, to enhance Clearwire’s business for the benefit of
Licensee as a shareholder of Clearwire Corporation (“Clearwire Parent”); and

NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and the mutual representations,
warranties, covenants, and agreements set forth in this Agreement and for other good and
valuable consideration, the sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged, the Parties hereto,
intending legally to be bound, agree as follows:

TH361919.3


ARTICLE I.

RELATIONSHIP TERMS
Section 1.01. Overview.

(a) This Agreement, the Individual Use Agreements entered into pursuant to this
Agreement, and the Collateral Documents entered into by the Parties in connection herewith,
describe the arrangement through which Clearwire and its Affiliates will obtain access to the
Initial Spectrum Capacity authorized by the FCC Licenses identified on Schedule A hereto and
any Future Spectrum Capacity (collectively, when under IUA hereunder, the “EBS Spectrum
Capacity”) to be delivered to Clearwire under the terms of this Agreement.

(b) Clearwire is making an initial payment under this Agreement that exceeds the
value of the Initial Spectrum Capacity, but that includes additional consideration for the Option
and the ROFR granted to Clearwire in this Agreement, and that also constitutes an advance
payment toward Future Spectrum Capacity.

(c) In addition to the Economic Royalties detailed in ARTICLE I], central to
Licensee’s grant of access to the Commercial Spectrum Capacity to Clearwire under an IUA is
Clearwire’s agreement and covenant to provide the Access Right Royalties and other benefits as
detailed in ARTICLE II and as provided for in each IUA, which consists of, among other items
(i) access to the Educational Reservation Basic Cost-Free Educational Accounts; (ii) access to
the Additional Cost-Free Educational Accounts; (iii) the Limited Reciprocity nghts; and (iv) the
Preferred Content Provider rights, together with technology, facilities, equipment and other
functionality from Clearwire and its Affiliates all as more specifically set forth in this Agreement
and in the IUAs related thereto.

Section 1.02. Overview of Mechanics and Structure of Agreements.

(a) IUAs for Initial Spectrum Capacity. In exchange for access to the Initial
Spectrum Capacity made available to Clearwire pursuant to Individual Use Agreements in the
form attached as Exhibit IJ hereto (individually, an “TUA”) executed and delivered as of the
Effective Date in accordance with the applicable closing procedure set forth in ARTICLE IV,
Clearwire will provide at the times and m the manner set forth in each TUA and hereunder, the
Economic Royalties set forth n ARTICLE II, together with the commitment to provide the
bundle of nghts and services set forth in ARTICLE III (identified collectively as the “Access
Right Royalties”). |

(b) Option for Future Spectrum Capacity. Licensee grants Clearwire an option
(the “Qption’’) to enter into IUAs with Licensee in respect of any and all spectrum (including,
but not limited to, the Commercial Spectrum Capacity, EBS and BRS) (“Spectrum”) on FCC
Licenses held by Licensee that is Available or that becomes Available during the Term, at prices

-6-

71361919,3


to be negotiated in good faith based on the fair market value (“FMV”) of such Spectrum at the
time the Option is to be exercised, provided, however, that the negotiated price shall not exceed
$0.15 per MHz POP. The Option shall be exercisable in Clearwire’s sole discretion each time
Spectrum of Licensee or its Affiliates becomes Available during the Term. When Spectrum is
acquired by Licensee or its Affiliates, or becomes Available for use by Clearwire under an IUA
as Future Spectrum Capacity, Licensee shall immediately provide a written proposal (an “Option
Notice”) to Clearwire with the same information with respect to such proposed Commercial
Spectrum Capacity as is set forth on Schedule A for the Initial Spectrum Capacity. Licensee
shall also promptly provide such additional information with respect to the proposal as may be
reasonably requested by Clearwire. If Clearwire is interested in negotiating the IUA with respect
to such proposed Spectrum, Clearwire shall inform Licensee and the parties shall commence
good faith negotiations within ten (10) days after Licensee’s receipt of such notice and shall
continue to negotiate in good faith for a period of not less than thirty (30) days; provided that
Clearwire may terminate the negotiations at any time during such thirty-day period before the
execution of the IUA. The negotiations shall include negotiations regarding the applicable FMV
(which shall not, in any case, exceed $0.15 per MHz POP) . If the Parties do not reach agreement
on the FMV for such proposed Spectrum within such thirty-day period, Clearwire’s Option with
respect to the specific Spectrum in question will terminate, but the provisions in Section 1.04
shall still apply with respect to such Spectrum in accordance with the terms of Section 1.04.
Clearwire has no obligation to accept any proposed Spectrum other than the Initial Spectrum
Capacity, except as provided in Section 1.02(c) with regard to Other Puerto Rico Transactions.
If the Parties reach agreement on the terms of the IUA for Future Spectrum Capacity, the
payment required under such IUA shall reduce the then remaining unapplied Prepaid Royalties
Balance. If any IUA for Future Spectrum Capacity requires a payment that exceeds the then-
current balance of the Prepaid Royalties Balance, Clearwire shall pay the difference to Licensee
in cash at the applicable Subsequent Closing.

(c) Puerto Rico Option. With respect to Commercial Spectrum Capacity of the
Licensee in Puerto Rico (“Licensee PR Spectrum”), if Clearwire exercises the Option for any of
Licensee’s spectrum that is Available in Puerto Rico, Licensee shall have the right to require that
all of Licensee PR Spectrum that is Available be included in the IUA as long as the price offered
to Clearwire for such spectrum by Licensee is $0.15 per MHz POP or less; provided that, during
the Term, and for twelve (12) months after the Term, if Clearwire enters into any lease (based on
a 30 year lease) or purchase transaction for any other BRS or EBS spectrum in the same or a
"Substantially Similar” (as defined below) GSA in Puerto Rico (an “Other Puerto Rico
Transaction”), or has already entered into or has any such Other Puerto Rico Transaction,
Clearwire shall provide the terms of such transaction to Licensee within seven (7) days of
consummation of the transaction, and Licensee shall have the option to accept the per MHzPOP
price in such Other Puerto Rico Transaction if the Other Puerto Rico Transaction is for EBS
spectrum, or the per MHzPOP price less 10% for BRS spectrum, and require that Clearwire
execute IUAs for any of Licensee’s Available Puerto Rico Spectrum in that GSA at that per
MHzPOP price (the “Higher Price’’); and further provided if the Other Puerto Rico Transaction

-7-

T1361919,3


occurs after Licensee and Clearwire have executed IUAs for the Licensee PR Spectrum, and the |
price per MHzPOP paid in the Other Puerto Rico Transaction is higher than that paid to Licensee
under the Puerto Rico Spectrum IUAs, then Clearwire shall promptly pay Licensee the difference
between that paid to Licensee for the executed IUAs and that paid pursuant to the Other Puerto
Rico Transaction for the Licensee Puerto Rico Spectrum in that GSA (the “Puerto Rico MFN
Right’). In no event will Licensee be obligated to enter into IUAs for any of Licensee’s Puerto
Rico channels at the price per MHz Pop of less than $0.10. For purposes of this paragraph, a
“Substantially Similar” GSA means a GSA the covers the same metropolitan are in Puerto Rico.
In the event of an Other Puerto Rico Transaction for any San Juan, Puerto Rico GSA, Licensee
shall receive the Higher Price for all MHzPOPs included in Licensee’s Substantially Similar
GSA and any overlapping GSAs, provided that Licensee shall not be entitled to receive the
Higher Price for a greater number of MHzPOPs than contained in the San Juan, Puerto Rico
GSA that 1s the subject of the Other Puerto Rico Transaction. (for example, if Clearwire
acquires the San Juan, PR “F” group that covers 2,700,000 people (“POPs’’), Licensee would be
entitled to receive the Higher Price for the same number of POPs times MHz for which Licensee
holds FCC licenses on the “B” channel Group covering the San Juan GSA, plus that number of
MHz POPs for any other adjacent “B” channel groups that overlap the San Juan, PR “F’ group,
not to exceed the total number of MHz POPs covered by the San Juan, PR “F’’ Group.)

(d) The Option shall be exercisable for any Licensee Spectrum in Clearwire’s sole
discretion each time such Licensee Spectrum becomes Available during the Term; provided that
Clearwire’s Option to acquire [UAs for Licensee PR Spectrum shall remain available to
Clearwire and subject to the Puerto Rico MFN Right for not less than twelve (12) months
without regard to the earlier expiration of the Term. Any outstanding Options shall lapse
automatically upon the expiration of the Term, except to the extent that Clearwire has previously
notified Licensee of its intention to exercise its Option with respect to such Spectrum prior to the
expiration of the Term.

Section 1.03. Service Affiliates. Clearwire covenants and agrees to cause the entity
providing each of the Access Right Royalties to the Licensee (each a “Service Affiliate”) to
assume the obligations of Clearwire hereunder with respect to the Access Right Royalties and to
be jointly and severally liable therefore for the purpose of providing a direct contractual
relationship between the Licensee and the Service Affiliates, including any other entity that over
time becomes a Service Affiliate. The Service Affiliate and the Licensee shall execute such
additional agreements as may be required to effectuate the provision of the applicable Access
Right Royalty or other service, consistent with the terms hereof and the applicable IUA (any
such agreement, a “Collateral Document”). Nothing in this Section 1.03 shall be construed to
limit the primary obligation of Clearwire to provide the Access Right Royalties.

Section 1.04. Right of First Refusal on IUAs. The terms of this Section 1.04 shall apply
to all Spectrum held by Licensee or any of its Affiliates during the Term, unless (1) Licensee has
complied with the Section 1.02(b) Option Notice with respect to such Spectrum, and (2) the
ROFR Offer (as defined below) does not call for payment of a lower price, or other terms that

-8-

TIZ61919.3


are more favorable to the third party, than those offered to Clearwire in connection with the
Option referred to in Section 1.02(b). During the Term of this Agreement (the “ROFR Period”),
Clearwire shall have a right of first refusal to use the Spectrum as set forth in this Section 1.04
and in Section 1.02(b). Upon the receipt by Licensee of any bona fide written offer (a “ROFR
Offer’) to purchase, lease, use or otherwise gain any access rights with respect to any of
Licensee’s Spectrum that Licensee desires to accept, Licensee shall transmit a written notice of
the ROFR Offer to Clearwire (the “ROFR Offer Notice”). The ROFR Offer Notice (i) shall
contain the name and address of the Person making the ROFR Offer, the payment structure
therefore and a summary of all material terms of such ROFR Offer, and (ii) shall offer to
Clearwire the option to enter into an IUA upon the terms and subject to the conditions of the
proposed third party use or lease agreement as set forth in the ROFR Offer Notice. Clearwire
shall then have the right for thirty (30) days to accept such ROFR Offer. If Clearwire accepts
such ROFR Offer, Clearwire and Licensee shall enter into an UA on such terms and conditions.
If after such thirty (30) day period or upon earlier written notice Clearwire does not accept such
ROFR Offer, its rights hereunder as to such ROFR Offer shall terminate and Licensee may for a
period of sixty (60) days following the expiration of such thirty (30) day period enter into an
agreement with the original offering party on the same terms and conditions as were offered to
Clearwire. If after such sixty (60) day period, Licensee does not enter such an agreement with
the original offering party, the Clearwire right of first refusal described in this Section shall again
apply for such timing remaining in the ROFR Period. If the ROFR Offer Notice provides that
any consideration is to be paid by the third person in whole or in part in a form other than cash,
Clearwire accepts the ROFR Offer, and Clearwire is able to provide or procure comparable non-
cash consideration using commercially reasonable efforts, Clearwire will so provide or procure
such non-cash consideration. In the event Clearwire is unable to provide or procure comparable
non-cash consideration, Clearwire may substitute, in whole or in part, for non-cash consideration
an amount in cash fairly equivalent to the then fair market value of the non-cash consideration
payable by the third person. The ROFR Offer acceptance must specify the amount of any such
substitute cash consideration and the non-cash consideration for which it is intended to
substitute. If Licensee disputes that the substitute cash consideration specified by Clearwire is in
an amount fairly equivalent to the fair market value of the non-cash consideration payable by the
third person, Licensee must within fifteen (15) days after the receipt of the ROFR Offer
acceptance provide Clearwire with written notice specifying the amount Licensee considers to be
fairly equivalent to the fair market value of the non-cash consideration payable by the third
person (the “Counter Offer”). The question of fair market value of the non-cash consideration
will be resolved pursuant to arbitration under this Agreement unless Clearwire gives Licensee

. written notice within fifteen (15) days after its receipt of the Counter-Offer that Clearwire agrees
to enter into an agreement containing the fair market value set forth in the Counter-Offer.

713619193


ARTICLE IL.

ECONOMIC ROYALTIES

Section 2.01. EBS Spectrum Capacity Economic Royalties. Clearwire shall cause to be
paid to the Licensee the amount of Twenty Three Million Dollars ($23,000,000.00) (the “Prepaid
Royalties”) upon execution of this Agreement. The Prepaid Royalties shall be applied as
provided in Section 1.02(b), against amounts otherwise due from Clearwire to Licensee with
respect to IUAs for Initial Spectrum Capacity and Future Spectrum Capacity.

Section 2.02. Refunding of Prepaid Royalties. Within five calendar days after the
expiration or termination of the Term of this Agreement for any cause, Licensee shall refund
Clearwire the full balance of Prepaid Royalties less any portion of the Prepaid Royalties that has
been applied against royalties due under fully executed [UAs for Initial Spectrum Capacity and
Future Spectrum Capacity (at any time the “Prepaid Royalties Balance’); provided that the Term
shall not be deemed to have expired for this purpose during a period that the Option periods
described in Section 1.02(b) have not terminated. Clearwire has the right, in its sole discretion,
to extend the date on which the Prepaid Royalties Balance must be refunded. If Clearwire
decides‘to grant such an extension, the Term of this Agreement shall be extended accordingly
and the terms of this Agreement shall continue in full force and effect.

ARTICLE UL

ACCESS RIGHT ROYALTIES

Section 3.01. Access Right Royalties. Clearwire shall provide the Access Right
Royalties described in this ARTICLE I from and after the Commencement Date of an UA
hereunder. The Access Right Royalties will be provided in a manner consistent with the way
the Access Right Royalties are provided by Clearwire to third parties under agreements that
provide for Access Right Royalties similar to the Access Right Royalties provided in this
Agreement. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, the Parties acknowledge that Licensee
currently provides, and intends to provide, a variety of digital educational services utilizing the

spectrum in Puerto Rico, a market of special importance to Licensee, and if the Option is
exercised with respect to Licensee PR Spectrum, Clearwire agrees to (in good faith) consider and
use its commercially reasonable best efforts to enter into a joint venture with Licensee in the
development and delivery of Licensee’s services in Puerto Rico to Educational End Users, which
services may be different from services provided in other markets, if such joint venture involves
the purchase of services from Clearwire at greater than Clearwire’s lowest wholesale price in the
market for such services.

Section 3.02. Cost-Free Educational Accounts.

-10-

TN361919.3


(a) Included in the Access Right Royalties provided to Licensee, Licensee shall
be entitled to Cost-Free Educational Accounts as provided in this Section 3.02, Section 3.03, and
Section 3.04.

(b) “Cost-Free Educational Account” means a wireless broadband connection
that Clearwire provides to Licensee without charge or expense to Licensee. Cost-Free
Educational Accounts shall have the same capacity and characteristics as the highest level of
premium mass market retail service provided on Clearwire’s network in a given Market Area.
Multiple individuals that are associated with an Educational End User at the time may share the
same Cost-Free Educational Account through Wi-Fi hotspots, local area networks, and other
means. To the extent not inconsistent with the terms of this Agreement and the applicable IUA,
the Cost-Free Educational Accounts shall be subject to the terms of Clearwire’s then generally
applicable Acceptable Use Policy. The Cost-Free Educational Accounts shall be fully portable
anywhere within the Clearwire National Platform to the extent that Clearwire offers such
portability to any customer.

Section 3.03. Educational Reservation Basic Cost-Free Education Accounts.

(a) In respect of Licensee’s educational reservation covering the five percent
(5%) educational spectrum capacity currently required by the FCC Rules pertaining to the FCC
Licenses (the “Educational Reservation’), Licensee shall be permitted to utilize the Educational
Reservation in such locations served by the Clearwire National Platform on a full time basis as
Licensee desires for its operations. Clearwire and Licensee shall at all times comply with
applicable FCC Rules. Clearwire may not use the Educational Reservation. In the event that the
Parties cannot agree on the application of any new rule or interpretation regarding the
Educational Reservation in their circumstances, the Parties shall jointly approach the FCC for
clarification in a timely fashion and, to the extent the matter remains unresolved thereafter, shall
settle the matter applying the Dispute Resolution Procedure.

(b) — ‘Initially, Clearwire shall provide Licensee one (1) Cost-Free Educational
Account per Cell Site per Market Area (each a “Basic Cost-Free Education Account”). The
number of Cost-Free Educational Accounts shall be adjusted upward every five years
proportionate to the growth of the overall data capacity of Clearwire’s network in the Market
Area where the EBS system is located. The growth (if any) in the overall data capacity shall be
determined as measured by its average throughput. The average throughput measurement shall
be made in such fashion as shall be agreed by the Parties, or (if the Parties fail to reach
agreement with respect to such measurement) as determined by arbitration, using metrics that are
as consistent as possible with those utilized at the time of the immediately prior average
throughput measurement.

Section 3.04. Additional Cost-Free Educational Accounts. In addition to, and not in lieu
of, the Cost-Free Educational Accounts provided to Licensee by Clearwire pursuant to the
Educational Reservation as set forth in Section 3.03, Clearwire shall provide Licensee with

-I1-

71361919.3


additional Cost-Free Educational Accounts in the number computed in accordance with this
Section 3.04 (the “Additional Cost-Free Educational Accounts”).

(a) Number and Periodic Adjustment. Licensee will have access to additional
spectrum capacity on Clearwire’s network in Licensee’s Market Area in the form of Cost-Free
Educational Accounts for use on the Clearwire National Platform equal to the greater of (X) two
(2) Cost-Free Educational Accounts per Sector in the Market Area where Licensee holds an FCC
License to operate an EBS system and (Y) the quantity of Cost-Free Educational Accounts
determined by applying the Formula Quantity. The number of Additional Cost Free Educational
Accounts that Clearwire is obligated to provide to Licensee shall be recalculated and revised
annually as of January 31 of each calendar year.

(3) The “Formula Quantity” as of any date, is equal to the product
obtained by multiplying: (a) the Local Channel Ratio by (b) 0.05, by (c) the number of
subscribers served by Clearwire in the Market Area as of the end of the previous calendar year.
In the event that this product is a fraction, it shall be rounded up or down to the nearest whole
number, where the “Local Channel Ratio” is the fraction obtained by dividing the number of
EBS channels provided to Clearwire by Licensee under IUA in a given Market Area as of the
date of the calculation by the total number of EBS and BRS channels with substantially
overlapping GSAs then used to provide service in such Market Area licensed to or under a use
agreement with Clearwire (including those of Licensee) as of that date.

(ii) | Educational End Users. Cost-Free Educational Accounts shall be
exclusively for Educational End Users and not for resale, assignment or transfer by Licensee
outside of its Educational End User environment or to persons who cease to be officially
associated with such Educational End User. (By way of example, a university may resell the
service to its students, faculty, administrators and staff, while such persons are involved with
the university, but shall cease to provide the service if a member of the faculty terminates
employment or a student graduates and ceases to be involved in university matters.)

(b) Time of Delivery. The Additional Cost-Free Educational Accounts shall be
provided by Clearwire to Licensee pursuant to this Section 3.04(b) upon the commercial launch
of Clearwire’s broadband wireless service in any Market Area where Licensee has an EBS
Spectrum Capacity IUA in place with Clearwire, or the applicable Commencement Date thereof
if later. *

Section 3.05. Licensee MVNO.

(a) In addition to the right to Cost-Free Educational Accounts, Licensee shall
have the night to resell the Clearwire service in the form of MVNO Educational Accounts to
additional Educational End Users in each Market Area for use on the Clearwire National
Platform. An “MVNO Educational Account” shall have the identical characteristics as a Cost-
Free Educational Account under Section 3.02(b), except that there shall be a charge to Licensee

-12-

TIZG1919.3


as determined pursuant to this Section 3.05. Clearwire shall sell to Licensee such services, at a
cost equal to the lowest wholesale rate provided by Clearwire to an arms-length third party in
such Market Area or other comparable market pursuant to any applicable agreement. However,
the number of MVNO Educational Accounts is limited in each Market Area to twice the number
of Cost-Free Educational Accounts for that Market Area.

(b) Mechanics. The resale of Clearwire’s services pursuant to this Section 3.05
shall be accomplished pursuant to a standard Clearwire wholesale agreement form drafted in a
manner consistent with the terms of this Agreement and the applicable IUA, which will be
provided to any Licensee requesting the nght to resell an MVNO Educational Account to an
Educational End User. Such arrangement shall be executed not later than thirty (30) days after
the availability of such services.

Section 3.06. Access to Educational End User Devices. Clearwire shall also make any
end-user equipment used in the Clearwire National Platform available for purchase by Licensee
at 10% above Clearwire’s cost to acquire such end-user equipment. Equipment provided to
Licensee pursuant to this section shall be used solely by Educational End Users and not for
resale.

Section 3.07. Sharing of Features and Service Sets. Licensee shall have access to, and
full use of, system capabilities, services and feature sets that are generally provided to
Clearwire’s retail customers or wholesalers to mass market customers. Licensee shall have
access to reasonably necessary support made available to Clearwire’s commercial customers
generally, and that is reasonably necessary for the Licensee to offer services to its Educational
End Users as contemplated by their agreement. The Licensee shall have access to new
capabilities, features and service sets within six months of the time that Clearwire makes them
available to customers generally, but not earlier than the Commencement Date with respect to
any particular JUA.

Section 3.08. Preferred Content Provider.

(a) Scope. In the event that Clearwire provides third party content to customers
over its network in any Market Area where Licensee is a party to an EBS Spectrum Capacity
IUA, Licensee shall be a “Preferred Content Provider” over such network in that Market Area.
As a Preferred Content Provider, Licensee shall have the same degree of access to, and use of,
any system capability, service or feature set that is provided to premium third party content
providers.

(b) Service Sets and Features. To the extent that Clearwire’s most favored
program suppliers pay for features and/or service sets, Licensee shall pay an equal amount for
equal features and/or service sets to the extent that Licensee elects to utilize them. Licensee
agrees that the programming that Licensee supplies to customers through Clearwire’s network

-13-

TIZGE919.3


will be educational in nature. Licensee agrees not to resell Clearwire’s network access, features
and/or service sets to third parties, except in accordance with Sections 3.04(a)(i1) and 3.05.

(c) Capacity Constraints. Clearwire reserves the right to restrict the use of the
capabilities and services made available to the Licensee as a Preferred Content Provider under
this Section 3.08 if such use is no longer commercially and technically feasible due to limitations
in network capabilities. Clearwire shall comply with the provisions of ARTICLE III to ensure
timely access to information about capacity usage and permit Licensee a reasonable opportunity
to secure alternative access.

Section 3.09. Limited Reciprocity Access. Clearwire shall use its commercially
reasonable best efforts to secure for Licensee, in the event that Clearwire enters into a
relationship with a video/audio content distribution entity (e.g., DirecTV), that Licensee is
accorded reciprocity with carriage of one ordinary unpaid channel carried on such entity’s basic
tier (“Limited Reciprocity”). Licensee will not be paid any royalty or other consideration for
providing such content to such distribution entity’s subscriber base. Any incremental out-of-
pocket costs Clearwire incurs exclusively for the benefit of Licensee that are related to
developing a relationship with such video/audio content distribution entity for Licensee (and
excluding its administrative and legal costs) will be passed along to Licensee, and Licensee will
have the option of paying such costs and taking the reciprocity.

ARTICLE IV.

CLOSING MECHAN ICS; ESCROW

Section 4.01. Deliveries at Execution of this Agreement. On the Effective Date of this
Agreement, Clearwire and the Licensee shall take the following actions required of it by
subsections (a) through (c) hereof.

(a) Licensee. Licensee shall deliver or cause to be delivered to Clearwire each of
the following, duly executed by an authorized representative of Licensee: (i) one [UA completed
in accordance with this Agreement with respect to each Market comprising the Initial Spectrum
Capacity; (41) the Stock Pledge Agreement attached to this Agreement as Exhibit III, and all
additional documents required under the Stock Pledge Agreement; and (iii) the certificate(s) of
Licensee described in Section 4.01(c). Licensee shal] have specified on Schedule 4.01 attached
hereto its wire account (each a “Wire Account’’), which Wire Account shall be included in the
applicable IUA. Absent notice of different instructions, all cash payments to be made as
provided on Schedule A, and as otherwise reflected in the applicable IUA or this Agreement to
be paid to Licensee, shall be to such Wire Account in immediately available funds.

-14-

71361919.3


(b) Clearwire. Clearwire shall deliver or cause to be delivered to the Licensee
each of the following, duly executed by an authorized representative of Clearwire: (i) one JUA
completed in accordance with this Agreement with respect to each Market comprising the Initial
Spectrum Capacity; (11) its certificate described in Section 4.01(c); and (i11) the Upfront Royalty
provided for in the applicable EBS Spectrum Capacity IUA as reflected on Schedule A.

(c) Officers Certificates. In connection with the execution of this Agreement,
each Party shall deliver to each other Party, in each case certified as of the Effective Date of this
Agreement by an authorized officer of the delivering Party, (A) a copy of the resolutions of the
board of directors of the delivering Party authorizing the execution, delivery and performance of
this Agreement and (B) a certificate of incumbency, with signatures of the officers of such Party
authorized to execute and deliver this Agreement.

Section 4.02. EBS Spectrum Capacity JUA Closing(s).

(a) Initial Closing. Subject to the terms and conditions set forth in this
Agreement, the closing of the transactions provided in this Agreement, including with respect to
JUAs for the Initial Spectrum Capacity that are executed on the date hereof (each an “Initial
Closing’), shall take place on the Effective Date of this Agreement (the “Initial Closing Date’).

(b) Subsequent Closings. Subject to the terms and conditions set forth in this
Agreement, the closing of IUAs for Future Spectrum Capacity as provided in this Agreement
shall take place as specified in the applicable [UAs when the Parties reach agreement on the
pricing of such Future Spectrum Capacity IUAs, at which time an EBS Spectrum Capacity IUA
shall be executed (each a “Subsequent Closing’’), which date shall be the Effective Date for that
IUA (the “Subsequent Closing Date”).

(c) Closing Conditions.

(1) Conditions to Each Party’s Obligations at a Closing. The respective
obligations of each Party to effect execution and closing of an EBS Spectrum Capacity IUA at
the Initial Closing or at any Subsequent Closing shall be subject to the satisfaction on or prior to
the applicable Closing Date of the following condition with respect to that EBS Spectrum
Capacity IUA.

=»

(1) No Injunctions or Restraints. No temporary restraining order,
preliminary or permanent injunction or other order issued by any court or other Government
Agency of competent jurisdiction preventing the consummation of the transactions contemplated
in the applicable IUA or under this Agreement as it relates to such IUA; provided, however, that
prior to invoking this condition, each Party hereto shall use all commercially reasonable efforts
to have any such injunction or other order vacated.

-15-

713G61919.3


(ii) Conditions to the Obligations of Clearwire. The obligations of
Clearwire to effect any Closing of an IUA hereunder shall be subject to the satisfaction at or
prior to the applicable Closing Date of such IUA of each of the following conditions, any of
which may be waived, solely in writing, and exclusively by Clearwire:

(1) Representations and Warranties. The representations and
warranties of the Licensee contained in the IUA shall be true and correct in all material respects
as of the Effective Date of such TUA.

(2) Officer Certificates. Clearwire shal] have received copies, in
each case certified as of the applicable Closing Date by an authorized officer of Licensee, of (i)
the resolutions of the board of directors of the Licensee, authorizing the execution, delivery and
performance of the TUA, (a1) the signature and incumbency of the officers of the Licensee
authorized to execute and deliver the IUA, and (iii) certifying that the representations and
warranties of the Party to be made under the IUA are true and correct.

(ii) Conditions to Obligations of Licensee. The obligations of Licensee
to effect any Closing of an EBS Spectrum Capacity IUA hereunder shall be subject to the
satisfaction at or prior to the applicable Closing Date of such TUA of each of the following
conditions, any of which may be waived, solely in writing, and exclusively by Licensee:

(1) Representations and Warranties. The representations and
warranties of Clearwire contained in the IUA shall be true and correct in all material respects as
of the Effective Date of such IUA.

(2) Officer Certificates. Licensee shall have received copies, in
each case certified as of the applicable Closing Date by an authorized officer of Clearwire, of (i)
the resolutions of the board of directors of Clearwire and each Clearwire Affiliate that is a Party
hereto, authorizing the execution, delivery and performance of the IUA, (ii) the signature and
incumbency of the officers of Clearwire authorized to execute and deliver the IUA, and (iii)
certifying that the representations and warranties of the Party to be made under the IUA are true
and correct. :

Section 4.03. Closing Site/Mechanics. Each of the Closings will occur by electronic
delivery procedure agreed by the Parties, provided that the Initial Closing shall take place at the
offices of Davis Wright Tremaine LLP, Seattle, Washington.

Section 4.04. Further Assurances. Upon the terms and subject to the conditions of this
Agreement, each of the Parties hereto shall use its reasonable best efforts to take, or cause to be
taken, all action, and to do, or cause to be done, all things necessary, proper or advisable
consistent with applicable law to consummate and make effective in the most expeditious
manner practicable the Closing of each IUA and compliance with the obligations therein and
herein in respect of each such TUA.

-16-

TAIGI9I9.3


ARTICLE V.

REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES OF LICENSEE
Licensee hereby represents and warrants to Clearwire and Clearwire Parent that:

Section 5.01. Organization and Good Standing. It is a nonprofit corporation duly
organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of its state of organization and
has all requisite corporate power and authority to own, lease and operate its properties and to
carry on its business as now conducted and as proposed to be conducted. Except as disclosed in
Schedule 5.01, it is duly qualified or authorized to do business as a foreign corporation and is in
good standing under the laws of each jurisdiction in which it owns or leases real property or FCC
Licenses and each other jurisdiction in which the conduct of its business or the ownership of its
properties requires such qualification or authorization, except where the failure to be so
qualified, authorized or in good standing does not have and would not reasonably be expected to
have a Licensee Material Adverse Effect.

Section 5.02. Authorization of Agreement. It has all requisite corporate power and
authority (i) to enter into, deliver and carry out the transactions contemplated by this Agreement
(the “Transactions”) and each other agreement, document, or instrument or certificate
contemplated by this Agreement to be delivered on the date thereof, (11) to enter into and deliver
all documents required or necessary to be executed by it in connection with the consummation of
the Transactions on the date hereof (collectively the “Licensee Documents”), and (iii) to
consummate the Transactions taking place on the date hereof. This Agreement has been and the
Licensee Documents when delivered will be duly and validly executed and delivered by it and
(assuming the due authorization, execution and delivery by the other parties hereto and thereto)
this Agreement constitutes and the Licensee Documents will constitute when delivered the legal,
valid and binding obligations of Licensee, enforceable against it in accordance with their terms,
subject to applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium and similar laws
affecting creditors’ nights and remedies generally, and subject, as to enforceability, to general
principles of equity, including principles of commercial reasonableness, good faith and fair
dealing (regardless of whether enforcement is sought in a proceeding at law or in equity).

Section 5.03. No Conflict. Except as set forth on Schedule 5.03:

(a) Neither the execution and delivery by Licensee of this Agreement or the

Licensee Documents, nor compliance by Licensee with any of the provisions hereof or thereof
will (@) conflict with, or result in the breach of, any provision of the Governing Documents of
Licensee, (ii) conflict with, violate, result in the breach of, constitute (with or without due notice,
lapse of time or both) a default under, result in the acceleration of, create in any Party the rights
to accelerate, terminate, modify or cancel, or require any notice, consent or waiver under, any
note, bond, mortgage, indenture, license, agreement or other obligation to which Licensee is a
party or by which Licensee or any of its properties or assets is bound or (111) violate any statute,

-17-

TI3E19I93


rule, regulation, order or decree of any Government Agency or authority by which Licensee is
bound, except in the cases of clauses (ii) and (iii) for such violations, breaches or defaults as
would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a Licensee Material Adverse Effect.

(b) | Noconsent, waiver, approval, order, permit or authorization of, or declaration
or filing with, or notification to, any Person or Government Agency is required on the part of
Licensee in connection with the execution and delivery of this Agreement or the Licensee
Documents or the compliance by Licensee with any of the provisions hereof or thereof, except as
contemplated herein or therein.

Section 5.04. Litigation. Except as set forth on Schedule 5.04 and other than
Proceedings of general applicability and those related to market transitions (“FCC Proceedings’),
there is no Proceeding now in progress or pending or, to the knowledge of Licensee, threatened
against Licensee or the assets (including the intellectual property rights) or the business of
Licensee, nor to the knowledge of Licensee, does there exist any basis therefore, except for
immaterial claims brought against Licensee in the ordinary course of business.

Section 5.05. Compliance with Laws; Permits. Excepting the markets listed on
Schedule 5.05 and only to the best knowledge of the Licensee, assuming compliance in all
material respects with the Communications Act and FCC Rules by other parties to a Third Party
Agreement where and during the time access to the Commercial Spectrum Capacity has been
governed by such Third Party Agreement, in respect of all licenses, including those otherwise
subject to Third Party Agreements, Licensee (a) has complied in all respects with all federal,
state, and local laws, rules, ordinances, codes, consents, authorizations, registrations, regulations,
decrees, directives, judgments and orders applicable to it and its business other than where
noncompliance would not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a
Licensee Material Adverse Effect and (b) has all federal, state, and local governmental Permits
necessary in the conduct of its business as currently conducted and to own and use its assets in
the manner in which such assets are currently owned and used other than where the failure to
possess such Permits would not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have
a Licensee Material Adverse Effect, such Permits are in full force and effect, and no violations
have been recorded in respect of any such Permit, and no proceeding is pending or, to the best
knowledge of Licensee, threatened to revoke or limit any such Permit.

Section 5.06. Brokers. Neither Licensee nor any of its directors, officers, employees, or
representatives has employed any broker or finder in connection with the Transactions.

Section 5.07. Knowledge. Any representation, warranty, covenant, obligation, or part
thereof that states that it is made to the best knowledge of Licensee is made to its best knowledge
after commercially reasonable investigation and includes all facts which it knew or should have
known as a result of such investigation, including the best knowledge of Licensee’s executive
officers and legal counsel after commercially reasonable investigation.

-18-

71361919.3


ARTICLE V1.

REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES OF CLEAR WIRE

Clearwire hereby represents and warrants to Licensee that:

Section 6.01. Organization and Good Standing. Clearwire Parent is a corporation duly
organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the State of Delaware and
Clearwire is a limited liability company duly organized, validly existing and in good standing
under the laws of the State of Nevada. Each has all requisite corporate power and authority to
own, lease and operate its properties and to carry on its business as now conducted. Clearwire is
duly qualified or authorized to do business as a foreign corporation and is in good standing under
the laws of each jurisdiction in which it owns or leases real property and each other jurisdiction
in which the conduct of its business or the ownership of its properties requires such qualification
or authorization, except where the failure to be so qualified, authorized or in good standing does
not have and would not reasonably be expected to have a Clearwire Material Adverse Effect.

Section 6.02. Authorization of Agreement. Each of Clearwire Parent and Clearwire has
all requisite corporate power and authority (i) to enter into, deliver and carry out the
Transactions, each JUA and each other agreement, document, or instrument or certificate
contemplated by this Agreement, (11) to enter into and deliver all documents required or
necessary to be executed by it in connection with the consummation of the Transactions
(collectively the “Clearwire Documents’), and (i11) to consummate the Transactions. This
Agreement has been and the Clearwire Documents will be when delivered duly and validly
executed and delivered by Clearwire and (assuming the due authorization, execution and
delivery by the other parties hereto and thereto) this Agreement constitutes and the Clearwire
Documents will constitute when delivered the legal, valid and binding obligations of Clearwire,
enforceable against it in accordance with their terms, subject to applicable bankruptcy,
insolvency, reorganization, moratorium and similar laws affecting creditors’ nghts and remedies
generally, and subject, as to enforceability, to general principles of equity, including principles of
commercial reasonableness, good faith and fair dealing (regardless of whether enforcement is
sought in a proceeding at law or in equity).

Section 6.03. No Conflict.

(a) Neither of the execution and delivery by Clearwire of this Agreement and of
the Clearwire Documents, nor the compliance by Clearwire with any of the provisions hereof or
thereof will (1) conflict with, or result in the breach of, any provision of the Governing
Documents of Clearwire, (ii) conflict with, violate, result in the breach of, or constitute (with or
without due notice, lapse of time or both) a default under, result in the acceleration of, create in
any Party the rights to accelerate, terminate, modify or cancel, or require any notice, consent or
waiver under, any note, bond, mortgage, indenture, license, agreement or other obligation to
which Clearwire is a party or by which Clearwire or any of its properties or assets are bound or

-19-

713619193


(11) violate any statute, rule, regulation, order or decree of any Government Agency by which
Clearwire is bound, except, in the case of clauses (ii) and (iti), for such violations, breaches or
defaults as would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a Clearwire Material Adverse
Effect.

(b) No consent, waiver, approval, order, permit or authorization of, or declaration
or filing with, or notification to, any Person or Government Agency is required on the part of
Clearwire in connection with the execution and delivery of this Agreement or the Clearwire
Documents or the compliance by Clearwire with any of the provisions hereof or thereof, except
that in connection with the execution of the IUAs executed pursuant to this Agreement,
Clearwire will prepare and file spectrum lease applications for approval by the FCC.

Section 6.04. Litigation. Except as would not reasonably be expected to have a
materially adverse effect on the ability of Clearwire to close hereunder or as set forth on
Schedule 6.04, (a) there is no Proceeding now in progress or pending or, to the knowledge of
Clearwire, threatened against Clearwire or the assets or the business of Clearwire and (b)
Clearwire is not subject to any order, writ, injunction or decree of any court or other Government
Agency.

Section 6.05. Compliance with Laws; Permits. Clearwire (a) has complied in all
respects with all federal, state, and local laws, rules, ordinances, codes, consents, authorizations,
registrations, regulations, decrees, directives, judgments and orders applicable to it and its
business other than where noncompliance would not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably
be expected to have a Clearwire Material Adverse Effect and (b) has all federal, state, and local
governmental Permits necessary in the conduct of its business as currently conducted and to own
and use its assets in the manner in which such assets are currently owned and used other than
where the failure to possess such Permits would not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably
be expected to have a Clearwire Material Adverse Effect, such Permits are in full force and
effect, and no violations have been recorded in respect of any such Permit, and no proceeding is
pending or, to the best knowledge of Clearwire, threatened to revoke or limit any such Permit, ,
except that in connection with the execution of the IUAs executed pursuant to this Agreement,
Clearwire will prepare and file spectrum lease applications for approval by the FCC.

Section 6.06. Brokers. Neither Clearwire nor any of its directors, officers, employees or
representatives has employed any broker or finder in connection with the Transactions.

ARTICLE VIL.

COVENANTS

Section 7.01. Consents and Approvals. Clearwire shall use its commercially reasonable
efforts to obtain, and shall cooperate with Licensee and assist Licensee in obtaining, all consents,
waivers, amendments, modifications, approvals, authorizations, permits and licenses which are

-20-

7E361919.3


required to be obtained by Clearwire and the Licensee to effectuate this Agreement. Licensee
shall use its respective commercially reasonable efforts to obtain, and shall cooperate with
Clearwire and assist Clearwire in obtaining, all consents, waivers, amendments, modifications,
approvals, authorizations, permits and licenses which are required to be obtained by Clearwire
and/or Licensee to effectuate this Agreement.

Section 7.02. Notice of Breach. Licensee shall promptly give Clearwire written notice
of any matter that becomes known to Licensee which Licensee determines is reasonably likely to
constitute a breach of any representation, warranty, agreement or covenant of Licensee contained
in this Agreement. Clearwire and Clearwire Parent shall promptly give the Licensee written
notice of any matter that becomes known to them which Clearwire or Clearwire Parent
determines is reasonably likely to constitute a breach of any representation, warranty, agreement
or covenant of Clearwire or Clearwire Parent contained in this Agreement.

Section 7.03. Maintenance of FCC Qualifications. The provisions of this Section 7.03
apply only to spectrum that has not been subject to an IUA. Except as such qualifications may
be affected by this Agreement or one or more [UAs entered into pursuant to this Agreement,
Licensee hereby covenants and agrees that it shall maintain all necessary qualifications to hold
and to obtain renewal in the ordinary course of any FCC License, subject to Clearwire’s
obligation to cause Licensee’s FCC License to timely meet the substantial service requirement
and to comply with FCC Rules in its use and access to the licensed spectrum, as such
qualifications may be amended or modified from time to time (individually an “FCC
Qualification” and collectively referred to as the “FCC Qualifications”), and further covenants
that it shall not knowingly or negligently take any action, or fail to take any action, which action
or failure to act creates a material risk that Licensee shall lose any FCC Qualification; provided,
that in the event that the FCC or any other legal authority shall at any time specify new or
different qualifications or conditions for the maintenance of any FCC Qualification or shall issue
a pronouncement offering a new interpretation of an FCC Qualification, Clearwire shall
reimburse on demand Licensee's reasonable expenses of taking such action as are required for
Licensee to bring itself and its operations into compliance with such new or different
qualifications or conditions; provided, further, that it shall not be deemed a breach of this
sentence if Licensee loses an FCC Qualification as a result, in whole or in part, of an act or
omission of Clearwire or any failure of Clearwire to perform its obligations under this
Agreement or any IUA. If, at any time, Licensee fails, or it appears to said Licensee more likely
than not that it will fail, to maintain any one or more of its FCC Qualifications with respect to
any of its FCC Licenses or its operations pursuant thereto, Licensee shall give written notice to
Clearwire within five (5) days after Licensee becomes actually aware that (i) it no longer
maintains such FCC Qualifications or (11) with the passage of time or upon the occurrence of a
future event it will no longer maintain such FCC Qualifications (referred to as a
“Disqualification Event’’). Licensee shall cooperate with reasonable requests of Clearwire made
from time to time for the purpose of verifying, at Clearwire’s expense, that Licensee maintains
its FCC Qualifications. Upon the occurrence of a Disqualification Event, the affected Licensee
shall, at Clearwire’s expense, promptly undertake all reasonable actions to obtain, to the extent

-2I-

71361919.3


permitted by applicable law, a waiver from the FCC regarding the circumstances giving rise to
such Disqualification Event or to cure the circumstances giving rise to such Disqualification
Event.

Section 7.04. Assignment of FCC Licenses. The provisions of this Section 7.04 apply
only to spectrum that has not been subject to an IUA. Licensee may assign the FCC License to
any entity that is eligible under FCC Rules to hold the FCC License, who is reasonably
acceptable to Clearwire and who assumes Licensee’s prospective obligations under this
Agreement, whereupon Licensee shall be forever relieved of such prospective obligations.
Clearwire and Licensee agree that it is reasonable for Clearwire to reject a proposed assignee
where the proposed assignee or its affiliate competes with Clearwire’s offering over EBS or BRS
spectrum. In the event that Licensee desires to assign its FCC License to another entity,
Licensee shall inform Clearwire in writing of the identity of such entity and within twenty (20)
days of such notice Clearwire shall inform Licensee in writing of whether Clearwire consents to
such assignment or refuses to consent to such assignment and, if it refuses, the reason(s) it is
relying upon for such refusal. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Licensee may, without the prior
consent of Clearwire, sell, assign, sublease, delegate or transfer this Agreement or any of its
rights or obligations hereunder to any of Licensee’s affiliates controlled by or under common
control with Licensee.

Section 7.05. Other FCC Requirements. In carrying out this Agreement, the Parties will
comply at all times with applicable laws, as well as rules and policies of the FCC. The Parties
believe that the provisions of this Agreement comply with all current FCC rules and policies, and
agree not to express any contrary view to regulatory agencies or the general public.

Section 7.06. Fees and Taxes. Until the end of the term of the IUA that is the last to
expire, Clearwire shall pay all fees and taxes (now existing or hereafter arising) imposed on
Licensee as a result of the licensing, regulation or use of Licensee’s EBS Spectrum by Clearwire
or Licensee, including, without limitation, any Federal spectrum, USF and/or regulatory fees that
may be imposed on EBS Spectrum in the future.

Section 7.07. Best Efforts for Duration of Relationship. The Parties acknowledge that
there will be many changes in the course of the term of the JUAs in technology, capabilities, and
regulatory environment and other relevant areas, and the Parties covenant and agree to act in a
cooperative manner to preserve the intent of the.relationships reflected in this Agreement to their
mutual advantage and to use their commercially reasonable best efforts to maintain that mutual
advantage in accordance with the initial intent of the Parties.

ARTICLE VIU.

INDEMNIFICATION

Section 8:01. Indemnification

-22-

TA3GE9ID 3


(a) Licensee shall indemnify Clearwire, its Affiliates, and each of their respective
stockholders (other than Licensee), directors, officers, employees, agents, successors and assigns
(collectively, the “Clearwire Indemnified Parties”) and hold each of the Clearwire Indemnified
Parties harmless from and against any and all Damages based upon, attributable to or resulting
from:

(a) The failure of any representation or warranty of Licensee set forth in
ARTICLE V hereof, or any representation or warranty contained in any certificate delivered by
or on behalf of Licensee pursuant to this Agreement, to be true and correct as of the dates made;
and

(i) The breach of any covenant or other agreement on the part of
Licensee under this Agreement.

(b) Clearwire shall indemnify the Licensee, its Affiliates, and each of its agents,
successors and assigns (collectively, the “Licensee Indemnified Parties”) and hold the Licensee
Indemnified Parties harmless from and against any and all Damages based upon, attributable to
or resulting from:

(i) The failure of any representation or warranty of Clearwire set forth
in ARTICLE VI hereof, or any representation or warranty contained in any certificate delivered
by or on behalf of Clearwire pursuant to this Agreement, to be true and correct as of the dates
made;

Gi) The breach of any covenant or other agreement on the part of
Clearwire under this Agreement; and

(iii) | The operation of equipment by, the provision of service by or
otherwise related to the activities of Clearwire, any of its Affiliates or any of its sublicensees or
resellers including, without limitation, damage to health.

Section 8.02. Determination of Damages. As used herein, “Damages” means any and
all losses, claims, demands, liabilities, obligations, actions, suits, orders, statutory or regulatory
compliance requirements, or proceedings asserted by any Person, and all damages, costs,
expenses, assessments, judgments, recoveries and deficiencies, including interest, penalties,
investigatory expenses, consultants’ fees, and reasonable attorneys’ fees and costs, of every kind
and description, contingent or otherwise. For purposes of the above, the amount of Damages in
respect of any breach of a representation or warranty shall be determined without regard to any
limitation or qualification as to materiality, Licensee(s) Material Adverse Effect, Clearwire
Material Adverse Effect, knowledge or similar language set forth in such representation or
warranty.

-23-

71361919.3


Section 8.03. Limitations on Indemnification for Breaches of Representations and
Warranties. An indemnifying Party shall not have any liability under Section 8.01(a)(i) or
Section 8.01(b){i) hereof unless the aggregate amount of Damages to the indemnified Parties
finally determined to arise thereunder based upon, attributable to or resulting from the failure of
any representation or warranty to be true and correct or the breach of any covenant, exceeds
$10,000 in the aggregate (the “Deductible”) and, in such event, the indemnifying Party shall be
required to pay the amount of such Damages including those used to compute the Deductible.

Section 8.04. Indemnification Procedures

(a) In the event that any claim shall be asserted by any Person in respect of which
payment may be sought under Section 8.01 hereof (regardless of the Deductible referred to
above) (each, a “Claim’”), the indemnified Party shall reasonably and promptly cause written
notice (a “Claim Notice”) of the assertion of any Claim of which it has knowledge which is
covered by this indemnity to be forwarded to the indemnifying Party. The indemnifying Party
shall have the nght, at its sole option and expense, to be represented by counsel of its choice,
which must be reasonably satisfactory to the indemnified Party, and to defend against, negotiate,
settle or otherwise deal with any Claim which relates to any Damages indemnified against
hereunder. If the indemnifying Party elects to defend against, negotiate, settle or otherwise deal
with any Claim which relates to any Damages indemnified against hereunder, it shall within five
(5) days of the delivery of the Claim Notice (or sooner, if the nature of the Claim so requires)
notify the indemnified Party of its intent to do so. If the indemnifying Party elects not to defend
against, negotiate, settle or otherwise deal with any Claim which relates to any Damages
indemnified against hereunder, fails to notify the indemnified Party of its election as herein
provided or contests its obligation to indemnify the indemnified Party for such Damages under
this Agreement, the indemnified Party may defend against, negotiate, settle or otherwise deal
with such Claim. If the indemnified Party defends any Claim, then the indemnifying Party shall
reimburse the indemnified Party for the expenses of defending such Claim upon submission of
periodic bills. If the indemnifying Party shall assume the defense of any Claim, the indemnified
Party may participate, at his or its own expense, in the defense of such Claim; provided,
however, that such indemnified Party shall be entitled to participate in any such defense with
separate counsel at the expense of the indemnifying Party if, so requested by the indemnifying
Party to participate or in the reasonable opinion of counsel to the indemnified Party, a conflict or
potential conflict exists between the indemnified Party and the indemnifying Party that would
make such separate representation advisable; and provided, further, that the indemnifying Party
shall not be required to pay for more than one such counsel for all indemnified Parties in
connection with any Claim. The Parties hereto agree to cooperate fully with each other in
connection with the defense, negotiation, or settlement of any such Claim.

(b) After any final judgment or award shall have been rendered by a court,
arbitration board or administrative agency of competent jurisdiction and the expiration of the
time in which to appeal therefrom, or a settlement shall have been consummated, or the
indemnified Party and the indemnifying Party shall have arrived at a mutually binding agreement

-24-

73361919.3


with respect to a Claim hereunder, the indemnified Party shall forward to the indemnifying Party
notice of any sums due and owing by the indemnifying Party pursuant to this Agreement with
respect to such matter.

(c) The failure of the indemnified Party to give reasonably prompt notice of any
Claim shall not release, waive or otherwise affect the indemnifying Party’s obligations with
respect thereto except to the extent that the indemnifying Party can demonstrate actual loss and
prejudice as a result of such failure.

ARTICLE IX.

TERM AND TERMINATION

Section 9.01. Term; Termination. The term of this Agreement (the “Term’’) will
commence on the Effective Date and will continue until the earlier of (1) eighteen (18) months
after the Effective Date, (2) the date on which Clearwire has used all of the Prepaid Royalties for
accessing Future Spectrum Capacity pursuant to this agreement, or (3) the date on which
Licensee has returned to Clearwire (in cash) the entire amount of the Prepaid Royalties that has
not been used for accessing Future Spectrum Capacity pursuant to this Agreement. Clearwire
shall have the night, in its sole discretion, to extend the Term at any time prior to its expiration
under clause (1) above; provided, that the Term shall not extend beyond the first to occur of the
events described in clauses (2) or (3) above except as it pertains to Puerto Rico . This Agreement
may be terminated prior to expiration of the Term under any of the following circumstances:

(i) by mutual wnitten agreement of the parties; (1) by Clearwire, upon giving written notice to
Licensee in the Event of Default; provided that such Event of Default is not cured (if it is capable
of being cured) within thirty (30) days following such notice; (iii) by Licensee, upon giving
written notice to Clearwire in the Event of Default; provided that with respect to an Event of
Default that is a payment default, it is not cured in thirty (30) days following such notice, and
with respect to all other Events of Default (that are of a type capable of being cured) such Event
of Default is not cured within one hundred eighty (180) days thereof; or (iv) by Clearwire upon
written notice to Licensee and to the extent allowed under law, if Licensee files a petition
pursuant to Title 7 or 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code or is adjudged a debtor after the
filing of an involuntary bankruptcy petition against Licensee, or if Licensee files a petition for
relief pursuant to any state insolvency laws. Upon termination of this Agreement for any cause,
the Prepaid Royalties Balance shall be refunded to Clearwire, as provided in Section 2.02.

Section 9.02. Defaults. It shall be an “Event of Default” hereunder if either party fails
to perform a material obligation or breaches a material representation and warranty contained in
this Agreement in circumstances where such failure results in the inability of the other party to
exercise its full rights under this Agreement. In the event of a Loss (as defined in the applicable
IUA), the Parties shal] cooperate in seeking special temporary authority from the FCC to allow
Clearwire to continue operating on the Channels until such time as it can transition its users to
other spectrum and minimize service disruption to its business and other activities.

-25-

TI361919.3


Section 9.03. Survival. The obligations of the parties under this Agreement that by their
nature would continue beyond expiration or termination of this Agreement shall survive any
expiration or termination of this Agreement. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing,
any rights of Clearwire with respect to any Options or any rights of first refusal shall survive the
expiration or termination of this Agreement if the notice or other event triggering such Option or
night of first refusal occurs (or would have occurred, if Licensee complied in full with the
requirements of this Agreement) prior to expiration or termination of this Agreement.

ARTICLE X.

GENERAL PROVISIONS

Section 10.01. Payment of Sales, Use or Similar Taxes. Clearwire shall be liable for and
shall pay (and shall indemnify and hold harmless the Licensee(s) Indemnified Parties against) all
sales, use, stamp, documentary, filing, recording, transfer, real estate transfer, registration, duty
or similar fees or taxes or governmental charges (together with any interest or penalty, addition
to tax or additional amount imposed) as levied by any taxing authority in connection with the
Transactions.

Section 10.02. Survival of Representations and Warranties. The representations and
warranties contained in this Agreement or in any certificate, document or instrument delivered in
connection herewith, shall survive each of the Closings hereunder for a period of one (1) year
from the Initial Closing Date or Subsequent Closing Date with respect to the EBS Spectrum that
is subject to such Initial Closing or Subsequent Closing, as applicable, regardless of any
investigation made by the Parties hereto. All agreements and covenants contained hereim shall
survive indefinitely until, by their respective terms, they are no longer operative.

Section 10.03. Entire Agreement; Amendments and Waivers. This Agreement (including
the schedules and exhibits hereto), represents the entire understanding and agreement between
the Parties hereto with respect to the subject matter hereof and can be amended, supplemented or
changed, and any provision hereof can be waived, only by written instrument making specific
reference to this Agreement signed by the Party against whom enforcement of any such
amendment, supplement, modification or waiver is sought. No action taken pursuant to this
Agreement, including without limitation, any investigation by or on behalf of any Party, shall be
deemed to constitute a waiver by the Party taking such action of compliance with any
representation, warranty, covenant, or agreement contained herein. The waiver by any Party
hereto of a breach of any provision of this Agreement shall not operate or be construed as a
further or continuing waiver of such breach or as a waiver of any other or subsequent breach. No
failure on the part of any Party to exercise, and no delay in exercising, any right, power or
remedy hereunder shall operate as a waiver thereof, nor shall any single or partial exercise of
such right, power, or remedy by such Party preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the
exercise of any other right, power, or remedy.

-26-

FAIGIFG.3


Section 10.04. Governing Law. The validity, meaning and effect of this Agreement shall
be determined in accordance with the laws of the State of New York applicable to contracts
made and to be performed in that state, regardless of the laws that might otherwise govern under
applicable principles of conflicts of laws thereof.

Section 10.05. Table of Contents and Headings. The table of contents and section
headings of this Agreement are for reference purposes only and are to be given no effect in the
construction or interpretation of this Agreement.

Section 10.06. Notices. All notices and other communications under this Agreement
shall be in writing and shall be deemed given when delivered personally or by overnight courier,
or mailed by certified mail, return receipt requested, to the Parties (and shall also be transmitted
by facsimile to the Persons receiving copies thereof) at the following addresses (or to such other
address as a Party may have specified by notice given to the other Party pursuant to this
provision):

If to Clearwire, to: | Clearwire Spectrum Holdings I LLC
5808 Lake Washington Blvd. N.E., Suite 300
Kirkland, WA 98033
Attention: Chief Executive Officer
Facsimile No.: (415) 216-7776

With a copy to: Clearwire Corporation.
5808 Lake Washington Blvd. N.E., Suite 300
Kirkland, WA 98033
Attention: Legal Department
Facsimile No.: (415) 216-7776

And a copy to: Davis Wright Tremaine LLP
2600 Century Square
1501 Fourth Avenue
Seattle, WA 98101-1688
Attention: Julie Weston
Facsimile No.: (206) 628-7699
If to Licensee, to: Hispanic Information and
Telecommunications Network, Inc.
63 Flushing Avenue, Unit 281
Brooklyn, NY 11205
Attention: Jose Luis Rodriguez
Fax: (718) 797-2546

With a copy to: Day, Berry & Howard LLP
| -27-

71361919.3


875 Third Avenue

New York, NY 10022
Attention: Sabino Rodriguez
Fax: (212) 829-3601

And a copy to: RJGLaw LLC
1010 Wayne Avenue, Suite 950
Silver Spring, MD 20910
Attention: Rudolph J. Geist
Fax: (301) 589-2644

Section 10.07. Publicity. No public release, announcement or other form of publicity
concerning this Agreement or the transactions described in this Agreement, shall be issued by
either Party without the prior consent of the other Party, except as such release or announcement
may be required by law, regulation or the rules or regulations of any securities exchange, in
which case the Party required to make the release or announcement shall, to the extent possible,
allow the other Party reasonable time to comment on such release or announcement in advance
of such issuance. The Parties shall use reasonable efforts to consult in good faith with each other
with a view to agreeing upon any press release or public announcement relating to the
transactions contemplated hereby prior to the consummation thereof.

Section 10.08. Severability. If any provision of this Agreement is invalid or
unenforceable, the balance of this Agreement shall remain in effect.

Section 10.09. Binding Effect; Assignment. This Agreement shall be binding upon and
inure to the benefit of the Parties and their respective successors and permitted assigns.

Section 10.10. Remedies. The Parties recognize that, in the event that a Party should
refuse to perform any provisions of this Agreement, monetary damages alone will not be
adequate. The non-defaulting Party shall therefore be entitled, in addition to any other remedies
which may be available, including money damages, to obtain specific performance of the terms
of this Agreement. Notwithstanding any other provision herein, no remedy conferred by any of
the specific provisions of this Agreement is intended to be exclusive of any other remedy, and
each and every remedy shall be cumulative and shall be in addition to every other remedy given
hereunder or now or hereafter existing at law or in equity or by statute or otherwise. The
election of any one or more remedies by a Party shall not constitute a waiver of the nght to
pursue other available remedies at any time.

Section 10.11. Dispute Resolution Procedure.

(a) General. The Parties desire to resolve disputes arising out of this Agreement
without litigation. Accordingly, the Parties agree to use the dispute resolution procedures set
forth in this Section 10.11 (the “Dispute Resolution Procedures”) as their sole means of

-28.

71361919.3