Lovejoy, Inc. - Kamco Industrial Products, Inc.
Sales Representation Agreement
Date: December 18, 2003

This Agreement by and between Lovejoy, Inc., hereafter known as the Company, and

Kamceo Industrial Products, Inc.
P.O. Box 905
Valley Forge, PA 19482

Known as the Representative, is in accordance with, and subject to, the following:

1.

80/20 Dvd OOWY>

The products which the Representative is authorized to sell are those items of power transmission
equipment sold under the Lovejoy, Inc. name. The items are as specified in current and
subsequent catalogs, bulletins, and other authorized publications of the Company.

The Representative shall not, without the Company's wnitten consent, offer, promote or sell any
product which is directly competitive with any product the Representative is to offer, promote or
sell for the Company in accordance with the terms of this agreement

All sales shal] be at prices and upon terms established by the Company, and it shall have the right,
in its discretion, from time to time, to establish, change, alter or amend prices and other terms and
conditions of sale. Representative shall not accept orders in the Company’s name or make price
quotations or delivery promises without the Company's prior approval.

No sales will be made to the Representative, nor to any firm, parmership, corporation or other
business owned, in whole or in part by, or managed by said Representative.

Said Representative agrees to abide and comply with all sales policies and operating regulations of
the Company, and communicate same to Representative’s customers.

The Territory to which the Representative is assigned is as follows: States of Maryland,
Delaware, the District of Columbia, and portions of Pennsylvania and New Jersey (see
attached territory maps).

This territory is exclusive, with the following exceptions:

a) No commissions will be paid on export sales.

b) No commissions will be paid on Government contracts or on sales to those accounts classified
as Government Accounts (Company Sales Territory 39).

c) No commissions will be paid on House Account sales, The Company reserves the right to
redefine these accounts. Addendum A attached shows a current roster of the aforementioned
accounts in your territory.

d) No commissions will be paid on labor charges or freight charges.

The Representative shall be credited with all orders accepted by the Company from their ternitory,
except as noted above, as long as this Agreement remains in force.

éSTSESZBT9 SG->T 6@0¢/20/TS


8. Commissions due the Representative are payable based on invoices to the customer, and will be
paid forty-five (45) days from the conclusion of the month in which shipment took place. If
orders are returned to and accepted by the Company for credit, commissions paid or credited to
the Representative for such orders shall be deducted from the amount of other commissions due, if
that amount is sufficient, otherwise, commissions paid on such retummed-for-credit orders shall be
refunded to the Company. Accounts listed for collection will be written off and commissions
deducted. When collection is made, the Representative will receive commission based on the net
amount collected.

9. Durning the initial six months of the agreement, the payable commission rate will be three percent
(3%) of shipments to customers in the Representative’s terntory, except those customers as
defined in Addendum A. Such commission rates are subject to change. In the event of such a
change, the Representative shall be notified by Registered Mail at least 30 days prior to the
effective date of such change. For further clarification, consult the attached “Windfall
Commission Policy.”

10. All new business secured by the Representative and sold through Lovejoy during the initial six
month period will result in an eight percent (8%) payable commission. The deterzaination of
whether business generated in the aforementioned territory is considered to be new business will
be determined solely by Lovejoy Management. Representative will keep John Est informed of
all new business/projects that are being developed in order to validate it as new business, and to
differentiate it from normal Lovejoy business.

11. Upon completion of the initial six months of the agreement, the payable commission rate for all
business will change to five percent (5%), irrespective of whether the business is classified as
new or existing business.

12. The rate of commission for certain accounts may be reduced by mutual agreement between the
Company and the Representative. These accounts, along with the corresponding payable
commission, are included as Addendum B (if applicable to the Representative).

13. Commissions will be paid on invoices to the customer to the Representative in whose ternitory the
Purchase Order originates unless the Company is notified, in writing, by another Representative,
that he is actively engaged in soliciting an order for a specific item, or items, from the same firm
at another location, and that the Purchase Order will be issued from a location outside his assigned
territory. In all such cases, the commission will be divided equally with no part being retained by
the Company. For further clarification, consult the attached “Split Commission Policy.”

14. The Company reserves the right to set special commission rates on specific orders and/or
quotations, where the competitive situation, in the Company's judgment, makes such action
appropriate.

15. The Company reserves the nght at all times to reject any and all orders because of unsatisfactory
credit rating of the purchaser. On sales to unrated new accounts, the Representative may be
required to furnish local credit information and submit full information with orders. The
Representative will also assist in the collection of past due accounts owed to the Company by
customers located in said Representative's territory.

16. This agreement shall commence and become effective January 1, 2004, and shall continue in force
for a one (1) year period, and shall be automatically renewed for additional one (1) year periads
thereafter unless terminated by written notice from either party to the other party not less than

GB/EQ ADVd OOWY> éSTSES/eTs S@:-PT 6882/20/ Ta


sixty (60) days prior to the end of the initial or any subsequent ope (1) year term. This Agreement
may also be terminated:

a) By the Company immediately upon written notice to the Representative by registered or
certified mail if there is a change of fifty (50%) percent or more of the present ownership or
control of the Representative’s business without Company's written consent.

b) By the Representative immediately upon written notice to the Company by registered or
certified mail in the event the Company sells substantially all of the assets of its business or
there is a change of fifty (50%) percent or more of its present ownership, or it is toerged with
another firm, corporation or business and the Company is not the surviving company.

c) By either party:

i. In the event of the other party’s unreasonable and repeated failure to perform the terms and
conditions of this agreement, written notice of the fatlure is mailed to or served upon that
party, the failure is not cured within thirty (30) days after receipt of such notice, and
written notice of termination is mailed via certified or registered to, or served upon that
party, or

ii. Upon immediate written notice to the other party in the event that party has filed or has
filed against it a petition in bankruptcy (which is not dismissed within thirty (30) days after
it is filed) or that party makes an assignment for the benefit of creditors, or

iii. By mutual woitten agreement.

OR Ugh (paler Ly: LF pr— PS

SIGNATURE DATE Me DATE
UP SALES ENKEI loss.
TITLE TITLE

The Legal address of the The Legal address of the

Company as of this date is Representative is as follows:

as follows:

2655 Wisconsin Avenue Davis Road

Downers Grove, OL 60515 Valley Forge Office Colony
Building 2, Suite 245
Valley Forge, PA 19482
3

8B/Pa  3DVd OOWWe LSIGESLQ19 «= S@PT «G6 BBZ/LO/TO


ADDENDUM A
Territory 85 — Kamco Industrial
Lovejoy Accounts |
Account # Customer Location Territory

5379001 CNH Global New Holland, PA 30
12374001 Ingersall-Rand Shippensburg, PA 30
28269001 Rexroth - Housings Business Only Lahigh Vailey. PA 30
22249001  Andritz, Inc. Muncy, PA 30
W.W. Grainger All Locations 30
McMaster Carr Supply All Locations 30
