

OPERATING AGREEMENT
AND MEMBERS AGREEMENT
DIALOGO, LLC

This Operating Agreement and Members Agreement (“Agreement”) of Dialogo, LLC (the
“Company") is made as of June __, 2004, among Lillian Santiago Bauza, a resident of Massachusetts
(“LSB”), and Direct Merchants S.A., Inc., a New Jersey Corporation ("DMSA"), as members of the
Company, and the persons or entities who become members of the Company in accordance with the
provisions hereof and whose names are set forth as Members on Schedule A hereto.

WHEREAS, LSB and DMSA desire to form a limited liability company pursuant to the Maine
Lunited Liability Company, as amended from time to time (the "Maine Act"), by filing Articles of
Organization with the office of the Secretary of State of the State of Maine and entering into this
Agreement.

NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the agreements and obligations set forth herein and
for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby
acknowledged and intending to be legally bound, the Members hereby agree as follows:

ARTICLE I
DEFINED TERMS

Section 1.1 Definitions. Unless the context otherwise requires, the terms defined in this
Article I shall, for the purposes of this Agreement, have the meanings herein specified.

“Additional Members” has the meaning set forth in Section 13.1 hereof.

"Affiliate" means with respect to a specified Person, any Person that directly or indirectly
controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with, the specified Person. As used in this
definition, the term "control" means the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause
the direction.of the management and policies of a Person, whether through ownership of voting
secunties, by contract or otherwise.

“Agreement” means this Operating Agreement and Members Agreement of the Company, as
amended, modified, supplemented or restated from time to time.

"Articles" means the Articles of Organization of the Company and any and all amendments
thereto and restatements thereof filed on behalf of the Company with the office of the Secretary of State
of the State of Maine pursuant to the Maine Act.

"Board" means the Board of Directors of the Company.

"Capital Account" means, with respect to any Member, the account maintained for such
Member tn accordance with the provisions of Section 4.4 hereof.



"Capital Contribution" means, with respect to any Member, the aggregate amount of money and
the fair market value of any property (other than money) contributed to the Company pursuant to
Section 4.1 hereof with respect to such Member's Interest.

"Code" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time, or any
corresponding federal tax statute enacted after the date of this Agreement. A reference to a specific
section of the Code refers not only to such specific section but also to any corresponding provision of
any federal tax statute enacted after the date of this Agreement, as such specific section or
corresponding provision is in effect on the date of application of the provisions of this Agreement
containing such reference.

"Company" means Dialogo, LLC, the lumited liability company formed and continued under and
pursuant to the Maine Act and this Agreement.

"Covered Person" means a Member, a Director, an Officer, a Manager, any Affiliate of a
Member, a Director, an Officer or a Manager, any officers, directors, Members, partners, employees,
representatives or agents of a Member, a Director, an Officer or a Manager, or their respective
Affihates, or any employee or agent of the Company or its Affiliates.

"Director" means a director of the Company.

"Fiscal Year" means (i) the period commencing upon the formation of the Company and ending
on December 31, 2004, (11) any subsequent twelve (12) month period commencing on January 1 and
ending on December 31, or (iii) any portion of the period described in Clause (ii) of this sentence for
which the Company is required to allocate Profits, Losses and other items of Company income, gain,
loss or deduction pursuant to Article VIII hereof.

“Interest” means a Member's limited liability company interest in the Company which represents
any Member Votes held by a member and such Member's interest of the profits and losses of the
Company and a Member's right to receive distributions of the Company's assets in accordance with the
provisions of this Agreement and the Maine Act.

"Laws" means:

(i) all constitutions, treaties, laws, statutes, codes, ordinances, orders, decrees,
rules, regulations and municipal by-laws, whether domestic, foreign or international:

(ii) all judgments, orders, wnts, injunctions, decisions, rulings, decrees and awards
of any governmental body;


(i) _ all policies, practices and guidelines of any govemmental body; and

(Iv) any amendment, modification, re-enactment, restatement or extension of the
foregoing, in each case binding on or affecting the party or Person referred to in the context in
which such word is used; and "Law" shall mean any one of them.

"Maine Act" means the Maine Limited Liability Company Act, 31 M.R.S.A. Chapter 13, as
amended from time to time.

"Majonty Vote" means the written approval of, or the affirmative vote by, Members holding a
majority of the Member Votes.

"Majority" means a majority of the Member Votes,

"Manager" means any Person designated by the Members as a manager of the Company within
the meaning of the Maine Act and shall include the Directors of the Company.

"Member" means each of LSB and DMSA and includes any Person admitted as an Additional
Member or a substitute Member pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement, in such Person's capacity
as a member of the Company, and "Members" means two (2) or more of such Persons when acting in
their capacities as members of the Company. For purposes of the Maine Act, the Members shall
constitute one (1) class or group of members.

"Member Votes” means the votes allocated to each Person as reflected in Schedule A as may
be amended.

"Net Cash Flow" means, for each Fiscal Year or other period of the Company, the gross cash
receipts of the Company from all sources, but excluding any amounts, such as gross receipts taxes, that
are held by the Company as a collection agent or in trust for others or that are otherwise not
unconditionally available to the Company, less all amounts paid by or for the account of the Company
during the same Fiscal Year or other period (including, without limitation, payments of principal and
interest on any Company indebtedness and expenses reimbursed to the Members under Section 5.2
hereof), and less any amounts determined by the Members to be necessary to provide a reasonable
reserve for working-capital needs or any other contingencies of the Company. Net Cash Flow shall be
determined in accordance with the cash receipts and disbursements method of accounting and otherwise
in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, consistently applied. Net Cash Flow shall



not be reduced by depreciation, amortization, cost recovery deductions, depletion, similar allowances or
' other non-cash items, but shall be increased by any reduction of reserves previously established.

"Officer" means an officer of the Company.

“Percentage Interest” means the interest of a Member, expressed as a portion of one hundred
percent, as shown on Schedule A hereto, which reflects the Member's ownership interest in the
Company, as determined by the unanimous written consent of the Members as adjusted from time to
time.

"Person" includes any individual, Company, association, partnership (general or limited), joint
venture, trust, estate, limited liability company, or other legal entity or organization.

“Profits” and "Losses" means, for each Fiscal Year, an amount equal to the Company's taxable
income or loss for such Fiscal Year, determined in accordance with § 703{a) of the Code.

"Secretary" means the Person appointed by the Board as the secretary of the Company, who
shall perform the duties described in Section 7.4 of this Agreement.

"Tax Matters Partner" has the meaning set forth in Section 11.1 hereof.

} "Treasury Regulations" means the income tax regulations, including temporary regulations,
promulgated under the Code, as such regulations may be amended from time to time (including
corresponding provisions of succeeding regulations).

Section 1.2 Headings. The headings and subheadings in this Agreement are included for
convenience and identification only and are in no way intended to describe, interpret, define or limit the
scope, extent or intent of this Agreement or any provision hereof.

ARTICLE I

FORMATION AND TERM

Section 2.1 Formation.
(1) The Members hereby form the Company as a limited liability company under

and pursuant to the provisions of the Maine Act and agree that the nghts, duties, and liabilities of
the Members shall be as provided in the Maine Act, except as otherwise provided herein.

4.


(it) Upon the execution of this Agreement or a counterpart of this Agreement, LSB
and DMSA shall be admitted as Members.

(ii) | The name and mailing address of each Member, the agreed value of the amount
contributed to the capital of the Company and the Percentage Interest of each Member shall be
listed on Schedule A attached hereto. The Secretary shall be required to update Schedule A
from time to time as necessary to accurately reflect the information therein. Any amendment or
revision to Schedule A made in accordance with this Agreement shall not be deemed an
amendment to this Agreement. Any reference in this Agreement to Schedule A shall be deemed
to be a reference to Schedule A as amended and in effect from time to time.

(iv) Gerry Pike, as an authorized person within the meaning of the Maine Act, shall
execute, deliver, and file the Articles,

Section 2.2. Name. The name of the Company formed hereby is Dialogo, LLC. The
business of the Company may be conducted upon compliance with all applicable Laws under any other
name designated by the Board.

Section 2.3 Term. The term of the Company shall commence on the date the Articles are
filed in the office of the Secretary of State of the State of Maine and shall continue in perpetuity, unless
the Company is dissolved in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement. The existence of the
Company as a separate legal entity shall continue until cancellation of the Articles in the manner required
by the Maine Act.

Section2.4 — Registered Agent and Office. The Company's registered agent and office in the
State of Maine shall be Mark Googins, Verrill & Dana, One Portland Square, Portland, Maine 04112.
At any time, the Members may designate another registered agent and/or registered office,

Section 2.5 Principal Place of Business. The principal place of business of the Company
shall be at 252 Open Square Way, Suite 405, Holyoke, MA. 01040. At any time, the Board may
change the location of the Company's principal place of business to another location.

Section 2.6 Qualification in Other Jurisdictions. The Board shall cause the Company to be
qualified, formed, or registered under assumed or fictitious name statutes or similar Laws in any
Jurisdiction in which the Company transacts business. The Secretary, as an authorized person within the
meaning of the Maine Act, shall execute, deliver and file any certificates (and any amendments and/or
restatements thereof) necessary for the Company to qualify to do business in a Jurisdiction in which the
Company may wish to conduct business.



ARTICLE II

PURPOSE AND POWERS OF THE COMPANY

Section 3.1 Purpose. The Company is formed for the object and purpose of developing
Spanish language newspaper(s) and media, and to engage in any lawful act or activity for which limited
lability companies may be formed under the Maine Act and engaging in any and all activities necessary,
convenient, desirable or incidental to the foregoing, including, without limitation, (i) to acquire, hold and
dispose of the investments, including investments in Affiliates, (ii) to lend money to, borrow money from,
act as surety, guarantor or endorser for, provide collateral for, and transact other business with third
parties including, Members and Affiliates of the Company, and (iii) acquiring, holding, managing,
operating and disposing of interests in real and personal property.

Section 3.2 Powers of the Company.

(i) The Company shall have the power and authority to take any and all actions
necessary, appropniate, proper, advisable, incidental or convenient to or for the
furtherance of the purpose set forth in Section 3.1, including, but not limited to, the
power:

(a) to conduct its business, carry on its operations and have and exercise
the powers granted to a limited lability company by the Maine Act in any state,
termtory, district or possession of the United States, or in any foreign country, that may
be necessary, convenient, or incidental to the accomplishment of the purpose of the
Company;

(b) to enter into, perform and carry out contracts of any kind, including,
without limitation, contracts with the Directors, the Officers, any Manager, any
Member, any Affiliate thereof, or any agent or Affiliate of the Company necessary to, in
connection with, convenient to, or incidental to the accomplishment of the purpose of
the Company;

(c) to lend money to, borrow money from, act as surety, guarantor or
endorser for, provide collateral for, and transact other business with third parties
including Members and Affiliates of the Company;

(d) to purchase, take, receive, subscribe for, or otherwise acquire, own,
hold, vote, use, employ, sell, mortgage, lend, pledge, or otherwise dispose of, and
otherwise use and deal in and with, Interests or other interests in or obligations of

-6-


domestic or foreign Company's, associations, general or limited partnerships (including,
without limitation, the power to be admitted as a partner thereof and to exercise the
rights and perform the duties created thereby), trusts, limited liability companies
(including, without limitation, the power to be admitted as a member or appointed as a
manager thereof and to exercise the rights and perform the duties created thereof), or
individuals or direct or indirect obligations of the United States or of any government,
state, terntory, governmental district, or municipality or of any instrumentality of any of
them;

(e) to lend money for its proper purpose, to invest and reinvest its funds, to
take and hold real and personal property for the payment of funds so loaned or
invested;

(f) to sue and be sued, complain and defend, and participate in
administrative or other proceedings, in its name;

(z) to appoint employees and agents of the Company, and define their
duties and fix their compensation;

(h) to indemnify any Person in accordance with the Maine Act and to
obtain any and all types of insurance;

(i) to cease its activities and cancel its Articles;

(j) to negotiate, enter into, renegotiate, extend, renew, terminate, modify,
amend, waive, execute, acknowledge, or take any other action with respect to any
lease, contract or security agreement in respect of any assets of the Company;

(k) to borrow money and issue evidences of indebtedness, and to secure
the same by a mortgage, pledge, or other lien on the assets of the Company;

() to pay, collect, compromise, liugate, arbitrate, or otherwise adjust or
settle any and all other claims or demands of or against the Company or to hold such
proceeds against the payment of contingent liabilities; and

(m) to make, execute, acknowledge, and file any and all documents or
instruments necessary, convenient, or incidental to the accomplishment of the purpose of
the Company.
 :
OO ag



(ii) The Company may merge with, or consolidate into, another limited liability
company or other business entity upon the approval of all of the Members.

ARTICLE IV

CAPITAL CONTRIBUTIONS, INTERESTS,
CAPITAL ACCOUNTS AND ADVANCES

Section 4.] Capital Contributions.

(i) Each Member has contributed or is deemed to have contributed to the capital
of the Company the amount set forth opposite the Member's name on Schedule A attached
hereto. The agreed value of the Capital Contributions made or deemed to have been made by
each Member shall be set forth on Schedule A.

(u) No Member shall be required to make any additional capital contribution to the
Company. However, a Member may make additional capital contributions to the Company
with the written consent of all of the Members.

Section 4.2 Member's Interest. A Member's Interest shall for all purposes be personal
property. A Member has no interest in specific Company property.

Section 4.3 Status of Capital Contributions.

(i) Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, the amount of a Member's
Capital Contributions may be retumed to it, in whole or in part, at any time, but only with the
consent of all of the Members. Any such returns of Capital Contributions shall be made to all
Members in proportion to their Percentage Interests. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no return
of a Member's Capital Contributions shall be made hereunder if such distribution would violate
applicable law. Under circumstances requiring a return of any Capital Contribution, no Member
shall have the right to demand or receive property other than cash, except as may be specifically
provided in this Agreement or as may be specifically agreed to by all of the Members.

(il) No Member shall receive any interest, salary, or drawing with respect to its
Capital Contributions or its Capital Account or for services rendered on behalf of the Company
or otherwise in its capacity as a Member, except:
(a) the respective invoices of each of DMSA, in connection with services
rendered or goods provided through or on behalf of the Company for a
client of the Company, shall be paid by the Company as it receives payment
form such customer;


(b) the Members shall be paid profits in accordance with their respective

Membership Interests; and
(c) as expressly provided by a unanimous resolution of the Board.

(iti) Except as otherwise provided herein and by applicable law, the Members shall
be able only to make their capital contributions pursuant to Section 4.1 hereof, and no
Member shall be required to lend any funds to the Company or, after a Member's Capital
Contributions have been fully paid pursuant to Section 4.1 hereof, to make any additional
capital contributions to the Company. No Member shall have any personal liability for the
repayment of any Capital Contribution of any other Member.

Section 4.4 Capital Accounts.

(i) An individual Capital Account shall be established and maintained for each
Member.

(it) The Capital Account of each Member shall be maintained in accordance with
the provisions of Regulation section 1.704-1 (b) (2) (iv)

Section 4.5 Advances. If any Member shall advance any funds to the Company in excess
of its Capital Contnbutions, the amount of such advance shall neither increase its Capital Account nor
entitle it to any mcrease in its Interest of the distributions of the Company. The amount of any such
advance shall be a debt obligation of the Company to such Member and shall be subject to such terms
and conditions acceptable to the Company and each Member. Any such advance shall be payable and
collectible only out of Company assets, and the other Members shall not be personally obligated to
repay any part thereof. No Person who makes any nonrecourse loan to the Company shall have or
acquire, as a result of making such loan, any direct or indirect interest in the profits, capital, or property

of the Company, other than as a creditor.


ARTICLE V

MEMBERS

Section 5.1 Powers of Members. The Members shal] have the power to exercise any and
all rights or powers granted to the Members pursuant to the express terms of this Agreement. The
Members shall also have the power to authorize the Board, by Majority Vote, to possess and exercise
any right or power not already vested in the Board pursuant to Article VI or any other provision of this
Agreement. In addition to the foregoing, the Members have the power to exercise any and all other
rights or powers of the Company and to do all lawful acts and things as are not by the Maine Act or this
Agreement directed or required to be exercised or done by the Board. Except as provided herein,
individually, the Members shall have no power to bind the Company.

Section 5.2 | Reimbursements. The Company shall reimburse the Members, for all ordinary
and necessary out-of pocket expenses incurred by the Members on behalf of the Company. Such
reimbursement shall be treated as an expense of the Company that shall be deducted in computing the
Net Cash Flow and shall not be deemed to constitute a distributive Interest of Profits or a distribution or

return of capital to any Member.

Section 5.3. Partition Each Member waives any and all rights that it may have to maintain
an action for partition of the Company's property.

Section 5.4 Resignation A Member may not resign from the Company prior to the
dissolution and winding up of the Company.

Section 5.5 Meetings of Members.

(i) The annual meeting of the Members for the election of Directors and the
transaction of other business shall be held, in each year, at such place as shall be designated by
the Board and stated in the notice of the meeting. Special meetings of Members for any
purpose or purposes may be held at such time and place, and shall be stated in the notice of the
meeting or in a duly executed waiver of notice thereof.

(u) At the annual meeting of the Members, LSB shall elect one of the Directors and
DMSA shall elect two of the Directors on the Company’s Board of Directors.

(ut) Written notice of the annual meeting stating the place, date and hour of the
meeting shall be given to each Member entitled to vote at such meeting not less than 10 nor
more than 60 days before the date of the meeting.

-10-
 Case 3:05-cv-30076-MAP Document 15-2 ~~ Filed 04/26/2005 Page 11 of 30

(iv) Special meetings of the Members, for any purpose or purposes, may be called
by the President and shall be called by the President or Secretary at the request in writing of a
majority of the Board. Such request shall state the purpose or purposes of the proposed
meeting.

(v) Written notice of a special meeting stating the place, date, and hour of the
meeting and the purpose or purposes for which the meeting is called, shall be given not less than
10 nor more than 60 days before the date of the meeting, to each Member entitled to vote at

such meeting.

(v1) Business transacted at any special meeting of Members shall be limited to the
purposes stated in the notice, unless otherwise agreed to by all of the Members.

(vu) | A Majority present in person or by proxy, shall constitute a quorum at all
meetings of the Members for the transaction of business except as otherwise provid ed by this
Agreement. If, however, such quorum shall not be present or represented at any meeting of the
Members, the Members entitled to vote thereat, present in person or represented by proxy,
shall have power to adjoum the meeting from time to time, without notice other than
announcement at the meeting, until a quorum shall be present or represented. At such
adjourned meeting at which a quorum shall be present or represented any business may be
transacted which might have been transacted at the meeting as originally notified. If the
adjournment is for more than 30 days, or if after the adjournment a new record date is fixed for
the adjourned meeting, a notice of the adjourned meeting shall be given to each Member of
record entitled to vote at the meeting.

(vii) | When a quorum is present at any meeting, a Majority Vote shall decide any
question brought before such meeting, unless the question is one upon which by express
provision of this Agreement, a different vote is required in which case such express provision
shall govern and control the decision of such question.

(ix) Unless otherwise provided in this Agreement, each Member shall at every
meeting of the Members be entitled to vote in person or by proxy, but no proxy shall be voted
on after three years from its date, unless the proxy provides for a longer period.

(x) Members may participate in a meeting of the Members by means of conference
telephone or similar communications equipment, provided all persons participating in the meeting
can hear each other, and such participation in a meeting shall constitute presence in person at
the meeting. If all the participants are participating by conference telephone or similar

-ll-


communications equipment, the meeting shall be deemed to be held at the principal place of
business of the Company.

(xi) | Unless otherwise provided in this Agreement, any action required to be taken at
any annual or special meeting of the Members of the Company or any action which may be
taken at any annual or special meeting of such Members, may be taken without a meeting,
without prior notice and without a vote, if a consent in writing, setting forth the action so taken,
shall be signed by a Majority. Prompt notice of taking of the action without a meeting by less
than unanimous consent shall be given to those Members who have not consented in writing.

ARTICLE VI

MANAGEMENT

Section 6.1 Board of Directors. Subject to Section 5.1 of this Agreement, the business and
affairs of the Company shall be managed by or under the direction of a Board of three Directors. A
person elected as a Director is by such election designated a Manager by the Members for purposes of
the Act. The Directors shall be elected at the annual meeting of the Members, except as provided in
this Article, and each Director elected shall hold office until a successor is elected and qualified or until
such Director's earlier death, resignation, or removal. Directors need not be Members. Vacancies shall
be filled by the vote of LSB, if the vacancy is the LSB-elected Director, and by DMSA if the vacancy is
a DMSA-elected director, and the Directors so chosen shall hold office until the next annual election
and until their successors are duly elected and shall qualify, unless sooner displaced.

Section6.2 Meetings of the Board of Directors. The Board of Directors of the Company
may hold meetings, both regular and special, within or outside the State of Maine. The first meeting of
each newly elected Board of Directors shall be held immediately after the annual meeting of Members
and at the same place, and no notice of such meeting shall be necessary to the newly elected Directors
in order legally to constitute the meeting, provided a quorum shall be present. In the event such meeting
is not held at that tume and place, the meeting may be held at such time and place as shall be specified in
a notice given as hereinafter provided for special meetings of the Board of Directors, or as shall be
specified in a written waiver signed by all of the Directors. Regular meetings of the Board may be held
without notice at such time and at such place as shall from time to time be determined by the Board.
Special meetings of the Board may be called by the President on three (3) days’ notice to each Director,
either personally, by telephone, by mail, by telegram or by any other means of communication; special
meetings shall be called by the President in like manner and on like notice on the written request of one
or more of the Directors.

~12-
 Case 3:05-cv-30076-MAP Document 15-2 ~~ Filed 04/26/2005 Page 13 of 30

Section 6.3. Quorum and Acts of the Board. At all meetings of the Board a majority of the
Directors shal! constitute a quorum for the transaction of business and, except as otherwise provided in
Section 6.9 of this Agreement or any other provision of this Agreement, the act of a majonty of the
Directors present at any meeting at which there is a quorum shall be the act of the Board. If any
Directors’ vote shall result in a tie- vote, then the matter voted on by the Board shall be presented to the
Members for vote, and the resulting vote by the Members shall decide such matters. If a quorum shall
not be present at any meeting of the Board, the Directors present thereat may adjourn the meeting from
time to time, without notice other than announcement at the meeting, until a quorum shall be present.
Any action required or permitted to be taken at any meeting of the Board or of any committee thereof
may be taken without a meeting, if all members of the Board or committee, as the case may be, consent
thereto in writing, and the writing or writings are filed with the minutes of proceedings of the Board or
committee.

Section 6.4 — Electronic Communications. Members of the Board, or any committee
designated by the Board, may participate in a meeting of the Board, or any committee, by means of
conference telephone or similar communications equipment by means of which all persons participating
in the meeting can hear each other, and such participation in a meeting shall constitute presence in
person at the meeting. If all the participants are participating by conference telephone or similar
communications equipment, the meeting shall be deemed to be held at the principal place of business of
the Company.

Section 6.5 Committees of Directors. The Board may, by resolution passed by a majonty
of the whole Board, designate one or more committees, each committee to consist of one or more of
the Directors of the Company. The Board may designate one or more Directors as alternate members
of any committee, who may replace any absent or disqualified member at any meeting of the committee.

In the absence or disqualification of a member of a committee, the member or members thereof
present at any meeting and not disqualified from voting, whether or not such members constitute a
quorum, may unanimously appoint another member of the Board to act at the meeting in the place of
any such absent or disqualified member.

Any such committee, to the extent provided in the resolution of the Board, shall have and may
exercise all the powers and authority of the Board in the management of the business and affairs of the
Company, but no such committee shall have the power or authority to take any of the actions described
in Section 6.9 of this Agreement unless authonzed in writing by each Director. Such committee or
committees shall have such name or names as may be determined from time to time by resolution
adopted by the Board. Each committee shall keep regular minutes of its meetings and report the same to
the Board when required. Section 6.6 Compensation of Directors. The Board shall have the authority
to fix the compensation of Directors. The Directors may be paid their expenses, if any, of attendance at

-13-
 Case 3:05-cv-30076-MAP Document 15-2 ~~ Filed 04/26/2005 Page 14 of 30

such meeting of the Board and may be paid a fixed sum for attendance at each meeting of the Board or
a stated salary as Director. No such payment shall preclude any Director from serving the Company in
any other capacity and receiving compensation therefor. Members of special or standing committees
may be allowed like compensation for attending committee meetings.

Section 6.6 | Removal of Directors. Unless otherwise restricted by Law, any Director may
be removed, with or without cause, by the Member that was entitled to elect such director. Any
vacancy caused by any such removal may be filled by action of the Member entitled to elect such
director.

Section 6.7 —_ Directors as Agents. The Directors, to the extent of their powers set forth in
this Agreement, are agents of the Company for the purpose of the Company's business, and the actions
of the Directors taken in accordance with such powers shall bind the Company.

Section 6.8 Actions Requiring Unanimous Approval of the Board. Notwithstanding any
other provision of this Agreement to the contrary, none of the Board, any Director, or any Officer shall
take any of the following actions on behalf of the Company unless authorized to do so unanimously by
the Board:

(i) the sale, exchange, or other disposition of any of the assets of the Company
except for sales in the ordinary course of business;

(it) the commencement of a voluntary proceeding seeking reorganization or other
relief with respect to the Company under any bankruptcy or other similar law or seeking the
appointment of a trustee, receiver, custodian, or other similar official of the Company or any
substantial part of its property, or the making by the Company of a general assignment for the
benefit of creditors;

(in) the declaration or making of any distributions to Members other than to
reimburse DMSA for initial capital contributions.

(tv) the entering into by the Company of any joint venture, partnership,
subcontracting, license, sub-license, manufacturing, marketing, distribution, or other similar
arrangement with any Person;

(v) the entermg into by the Company of any agreement, facility, commitment,
guaranty, instrument, or other undertaking providing for, or relating to, the incurrence of any
indebtedness by the Company;
 Case 3:05-cv-30076-MAP Document 15-2 ~~ Filed 04/26/2005 Page 15 of 30

(vi) _ the formation or organization of any subsidiary of the Company and the
appointment of directors of (or persons with comparable authority with respect to) any such

subsidiary;

(vil) the issuance, sale, acquisition, or repurchase by the Company of any Interest or
other equity interest (or option, warrant, conversion or similar nght with respect to any equity
interest) in or of the Company;

(vin) the commitment to any material capital expenditure by the Company in any
Fiscal Year of the Company;

(ix) the adoption of a business plan and annual operating budget for the Company
(or any updates to each thereof).

(x) the entering into, amendment or termination of employment contracts with
Officers of the Company or other contracts with Directors, Officers, Managers, or Members or
their respective Affiliates;

(x1) the appointment or change of the independent auditors or deposit banks of the
Company;

(xi) the acquisition or lease by the Company of any real property, or any sale, lease,
or sublease of, or simular arrangement affecting, any real property owned or leased by the
Company;

{xu) the entering into, amendment, modification, renewal (or election not to renew),
waiver, or termination by the Company of any financing document; and

(xiv) _ the incurrence or assumption of any material liability or obligation, whether
contractually or otherwise, by the Company.
 Case 3:05-cv-30076-MAP Document 15-2 ~~ Filed 04/26/2005 Page 16 of 30

ARTICLE VII

OFFICERS

Section 7.1 Officers. The Officers of the Company shall be elected by the Board and shall
consist of at least a President, a Secretary, and a Treasurer. The Board of Directors may also choose
one or more Vice Presidents, and one or more Assistant Secretaries and Assistant Treasurers. Any
number of offices may be held by the same person. The Board at its first meeting after each annual
meeting of Members shall choose a President, a Secretary, and a Treasurer. The Board at its first
meeting may appoint such other Officers and agents as it shall deem necessary who shall hold their
offices for such terms and shall exercise such powers and perform such duties as shall be determined
from time to time by the Board. The salaries of all Officers and agents of the Company shall be fixed by
or in the manner prescribed by the Board. The Officers of the Company shall hold office until their
successors are chosen and qualify. Any Officer elected or appointed by the Board of Directors may be
removed at any time by the affirmative vote of a majonty of the Board. Any vacancy occuring in any
office of the Company shall be filled by the Board.

Section 7.2 The President. The President shall be the chief executive officer of the
Company, shall preside at all meetings of the Members and the Board, shall have general and active
management of the business of the Company and shall see that all orders and resolutions of the Board
are carried into effect. The President shall execute bonds, mortgages, and other contracts, except
where required or permitted by Law to be otherwise signed and executed and except where signing and
execution thereof shall be expressly delegated by the Board to some other Officer or agent of the
Company or except as otherwise permitted in Section 7.3 hereof.

Section 7.3 The Vice President. In the absence of the President or in the event of the
President's inability to act, the Vice President, if any, (or in the event there be more than one Vice
President, the Vice Presidents in the order designated by the Directors, or in the absence of any
designation, then in the order of their election) shall perform the duties of the President, and when so
acting, shall have all the powers of and be subject to all the restrictions upon the President. The Vice
Presidents, if any, shall perform such other duties and have such other powers as the Board may from
tume to time prescribe.

Section 7.4 The Secretary and Assistant Secretary. The Secretary shal] be responsible for
filing legal documents and maintaining records for the Company. The Secretary shall attend all meetings
of the Board and all meetings of the Members and record all the proceedings of the meetings of the
Company and of the Board in a book to be kept for that purpose and shall perform like duties for the
standing committees when required. The Secretary shall give, or cause to be given, notice of all
meetings of the Members and special meetings of the Board, and shall perform such other duties as may

-16-
 Case 3:05-cv-30076-MAP Document 15-2 ~~ Filed 04/26/2005 Page 17 of 30

be prescribed by the Board or President, under whose supervision the Secretary shall be. The
Assistant Secretary, or if there be more than one, the Assistant Secretaries in the order determined by
the Board (or if there be no such determination, then in order of their election) shall, in the absence of
the Secretary or in the event of the Secretary's inability to act, perform the duties and exercise the
powers of the Secretary and shall perform such other duties and have such other powers as the Board

may from time to time prescribe.

Section 7.5 The Treasurer and Assistant Treasurer. The Treasurer shall have the custody of
the Company funds and securities and shall keep full and accurate accounts of receipts and
disbursements in books belonging to the Company and shall deposit all moneys and other valuable
effects in the name and to the credit of the Company in such depositories as may be designated by the
Board. The Treasurer shall disburse the funds of the Company as may be ordered by the Board, taking
proper vouchers for such disbursements, and shall render to the President and the Board, at its regular
meetings, or when the Board so requires, an account of all of the Treasurer's transactions and of the
financial condition of the Company. The Assistant Treasurer, or if there shall be more than one, the
Assistant Treasurers in the order determined by the Board (or if there be no such determination, then in
the order of their election), shall, in the absence of the Treasurer or in the event of the Treasurer's
inability to act, perform the duties and exercise the powers of the Treasurer and shall perform such other
duties and have such other powers as the Board may from time to time prescribe.

Section 7.6 Officers as Agents. The Officers, to the extent of their powers set forth in this
Agreement or otherwise vested in them by action of the Board, are agents of the Company for the
purpose of the Company's business, and the actions of the Officers taken in accordance with such
powers shall bind the Company,

Section 7.7 Duties of Board and Officers. Except to the extent provided herein, each
Director and Officer shall have the fiduciary duty of loyalty and care similar to those of directors and
officers of business corporations organized under the Maine Business Corporation Act.

ARTICLE VII
ALLOCATIONS
Section 8.1 Profits and Losses.
(i) Subject to the allocation rules of Section 8.2 hereof, Profits for any Fiscal Year

shall be allocated among the Members in proportion to the Percentage Interests.

(ul) Subject to the allocation rules of Section 8.2 hereof, Losses for any Fiscal Year
shall be allocated among the Members in proportion to the Percentage Interests.

-17-


Section 8.2 Allocation Rules.

(i) For purposes of determining the Profits, Losses or any other items allocable to
any period, Profits, Losses and any such other items shall be determined on a daily, monthly or
other basis, as determined by the Members using any method that is permissible under § 706 of

the Code and the Treasury Regulations thereunder.

(ii) Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, all items of Company income,
gain, loss, deduction and any other allocations not otherwise provided for shall be shared among
the Members in the same proportions as they shared Interest Profits and Losses for the Fiscal

Year in question.

(i) The Members are aware of the income tax consequences of the allocations
made by this Article VHI and hereby agree to be bound by the provisions of this Article VIII in
reporting their Interests of Company income and loss for income tax purposes.

(iv) The Members intend that the allocation provisions set forth in this Agreement
are intended to comply with Section 704(b) of the Code and the Treasury Regulations issued
thereunder and the provisions are to be interpreted in a manner consistent with those Treasury
Regulations.

Section 8.3 Tax Allocations; Section 704(c¢) of the Code. In accordance with Section
704(c) of the Code and the Treasury Regulations thereunder, income, gain, loss and deduction with
respect to any property contributed to the capital of the Company shall, solely for income tax purposes,
be allocated among the Members so as to take account of any variation between the adjusted basis of
such property to the Company for federal income tax purposes and its initial fair market value.

ARTICLE IX

DISTRIBUTIONS

Section 9.1 Net Cash Flow. Except as otherwise provided in Article XV hereof (relating to
the dissolution of the Company), any distribution of the Net Cash Flow during any Fiscal Year shall be
made to the Members in proportion to the Percentage Interests.

Section 9.2 Distribution Rules. All distributions pursuant to Section 9.1 hereof shall be at
such times and in such amounts as shall be determined by the Board.



Section 9.3. Limitations on Distribution. Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary
contained in this Agreement, the Company, and the Board on behalf of the Company, shall not make a
distribution to any Member on account of its interest in the Company if such distribution would violate
applicable Law.

Section 9.4 = Amounts Withheld. All amounts withheld pursuant to the Code or any provision
of any state, local or foreign tax law as to any payment, distribution or allocation to the Company or the
Members shall be treated, for all purposes under this Agreement, as amounts paid or distributed, as the
case may be, to the Members as to which such amount was withheld pursuant to this 9.4. The
Company is authonzed to withhold from payments and distributions, or with respect to allocations to the
Members, and to pay over to any federal, state and local government or any foreign government, any
amounts required to be so withheld pursuant to the Code or any provisions of any other federal, state or
local law or any foreign law, and shal! allocate any such amounts to the Members with respect to which
such amount was withheld.

ARTICLE X

BOOKS AND RECORDS

Section 10.1 Books, Records and Financial Statements.

(i) At all tumes dunng the continuance of the Company, the Company shall
maintain, at its principal place of business, separate books of account for the Company that shall
show a true and accurate record of all costs and expenses incurred, all charges made, all credits
made and received and all income derived in connection with the operation of the Company
business in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles consistently applied, and,
to the extent inconsistent therewith, in accordance with this Agreement. Such books of account,
together with a copy of this Agreement and of the Certificate, shall at all times be maintained at
the principal place of business of the Company and shall be open to inspection and examination
at reasonable times by each Member and its duly authorized representative for any purpose
reasonably related to such Member's interest in the Company.

(u) The Company, and the Board on behalf of the Company, shall prepare and
maintain, or cause to be prepared and maintained, the books of account of the Company. The
Company, and the Board on behalf of the Company, shall prepare and file, or cause to be
prepared and filed, all applicable federal and state tax returns.

Section 10.2 Accounting Method. For both financial and tax reporting purposes and for
purposes of determining Profits and Losses, the books and records of the Company shall be kept on
the accrual method of accounting applied in a consistent manner in accordance with generally accepted

-]9.
 0


accounting principles and shall reflect all Company transactions and be appropriate and adequate for the
Company's business,

ARTICLE XI

TAX MATTERS

Section 11.1 Tax Matters Partner.

(1) DMSA is hereby designated as "Tax Matters Partner" of the Company for
purposes of § 6231(a)(7) of the Code.

(u) The Tax Matters Partner shall, within ten ( 10) days of the receipt of any notice
from the Intemal Revenue Service in any administrative proceeding at the Company level
relating to the determination of any Company item of income, gain, loss, deduction or credit,
mail or otherwise deliver a copy of such notice to each Member.

Section 11.2 Taxation as Partnership. The Company shall be treated as a partnership for
U.S. federal income tax purposes.

ARTICLE xi

LIABILITY, EXCULPATION, INDEMNIFICATION

Section 12.1 Liability. Except as otherwise provided by the Maine Act, the debts,
obligations, and liabilities of the Company, whether arising in contract, tort or otherwise, shall be solely
the debts, obligations, and habilities of the Company, and no Member or Manager shall be obligated
personally for any such debt, obli gation, or liability of the Company solely by reason of being a Member
or Manager.

Section 12.2 Exculpation,

(i) No Covered Person shall be liable to the Company or any other Covered
Person for any loss, damage, or claim incurred by reason of any act or omission performed or omitted
by such Covered Person in good faith on behalf of the Company and in a manner reasonably believed
to be within the scope of authority conferred on such Covered Person by this Agreement, except that a
Covered Person shall be liable for any such loss, damage or claim incurred by reason of such Covered
Person's gross negligence or willful misconduct,

-20-
 f 30
Case 3:05-cv-30076-MAP Document 15-2 ~~ Filed 04/26/2005 Page 210

professional or expert competence and who has been selected with reasonable care by or on behalf of
the Company, including information, Opuuons, reports or statements as to the value and amount of the
assets, liabilities, Profits, Losses, or Net Cash Flow or any other facts pertinent to the existence and
amount of assets from which distributions to Members might properly be paid.

Section 12.3 Fiduciary Duty. To the extent that, at law or in equity, a Covered Person has
duties (including fiduciary duties) and liabilities relating thereto to the Company or to any other Covered
Person, a Covered Person acting under this Agreement shall not be liable to the Company or to any
Member for its good faith reliance on the provisions of this Agreement. The provisions of this
Agreement, to the extent that they restrict the duties and liabilities of a Covered Person otherwise
existing at law or in equity, are agreed by the parties hereto to replace such other duties and liabilities of
such Covered Person.

Section 12.4 Indemnification To the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, a Covered
Person shall be entitled to indemnification from the Company for any loss, damage or claim incurred by
such Covered Person by reason of any act or omission performed or omitted by such Covered Person
in good faith on behalf of the Company and in a manner reasonably believed to be within the scope of
authority conferred on such Covered Person by this Agreement, except that no Covered Person shall
be entitled to be indemnified in respect of any loss, damage or claim incurred by such Covered Person
| by reason of gross negligence or willful misconduct with respect to such acts or omissions; provided,
however, that any indemnity under this Section 12.4 shall be provided out of and to the extent of
Company assets only, and no Covered Person shall! have any personal lia bility with respect to such

indemnity.

Section 12.5 Expenses. To the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, expenses (including
legal fees) incurred by a Covered Person in defending any claim, demand, action, suit, or proceeding
shall, from time to time, be advanced by the Company prior to the final disposition of such claim,
demand, action, suit or proceeding upon receipt by the Company of an undertaking by or on behalf of
the Covered Person to repay such amount if it shall be determined that the Covered Person is not
entitled to be indemnified as authorized in Section 12.4 hereof

Section 12.6 Insurance. The Company may purchase and maintain insurance, to the extent
and in such amounts as the Board shall, in its sole discretion, deem reasonable, on behalf of Covered
Persons and such other Persons as the Board shall determine, against any liability that may be asserted

-2I-
 Case 3:05-cv-30076-MAP Document 15-2 ~~ Filed 04/26/2005 Page 22 of 30

Section 12.7 DMSA’s Outside Businesses; LSB’s Exclusivity. DMSA or an Affiliate thereof
may engage in or possess an interest in other business ventures of any nature or description,
independently or with others, similar or dissimilar to the business of the Company, and the Company

the income or profits derived therefrom, and the pursuit of any such venture, even if competitive with the
business of the Company, shall not be deemed wrongful or umproper. Neither DMSA, nor an Affiliate
thereof shall be obligated to present any particular investment opportunity to the Company even if such
Opportunity is of a character that, if presented to the Company, could be taken by the Company, and
DMSA or its Affiliate thereof shall have the right to take for its own account (individually or as a partner
or fiduciary) or to recommend to others any such particular investment Opportunity. Without diminishing
DMSA’s nights under the foregoing language, DMSA does agree that it intends to use diligent efforts to
direct appropriate business to the Company in furtherance of the Company’s goals, However, LSB
shall employ its diligent efforts for the Company and LSB shall not provide such services, directly or
indirectly for itself or any other entity or person to the extent it relates to the business. DMSA is hereby
expressly relieved of its fiduciary duties as a Director to the extent such duties would prevent or impede
DMSA from undertaking, soliciting or profiting from any business venture or investment opportunity,
whether or not such venture or Opportunity is similar or dissimilar to the business of the Company.

Section 12.8 DMSA and LSB acknowledge and agree that all efforts and actions undertaken
by them for the Company in connection with the business of the company are to be kept confidential.
Neither DMSA nor LSB will disclose to any person or entity, directly or indirectly, any Proprietary
Information (as hereinafter defined) relating to the Company's business without the prior written consent
of the LLC. For purposes of this Agreement, “Proprietary Information" means al] advertiser and
subscription lists, advertiser and subscription prospects, marketing information and data, product
information, strategic or technical information, financial information, supplier information, billing rates and
advertiser provided information, documents and data.

-2?.


ARTICLE XIN

ADDITIONAL MEMBERS

Section 13.1 Admission By approval of all of the Members, the Company is authorized to
admit any Person as an additional member of the Company (each, an "Additional Member" and
collectively, the "Additional Members"). Each such Person shall be admitted as an Additional Member
at the time such Person (i) executes this Agreement or a counterpart of this Agreement and (ii) is named
as a Member on Schedule A hereto. The legal fees and expenses associated with such admission shall
be borne by the Company.

Section 13.2 Allocations. Additional Members shall not be entitled to any retroactive
allocation of the Company's income, gains, losses, deductions, credits, or other items; provided that,
subject to the restrictions of § 706(d) of the Code, Additional Members shall be entitled to their
respective Interest of the Company's income, gains, losses, deductions, credits, and other items arising
under contracts entered into before the effective date of the admission of any Additional Members to
the extent that such income, gains, losses, deductions, credits, and other items arise after such effective
date. To the extent consistent with § 706(d) of the Code and Treasury Regulations promulgated
thereunder, the Company's books may be closed at the time Additional Members are admitted (as
though the Company's tax year had ended) or the Company may credit to the Additional Members pro
rata allocations of the Company's income, gains, losses, deductions, credits and items for that portion of
the Company's Fiscal Year after the effective date of the admission of the Additional Members.

ARTICLE XIV

ASSIGNMENT AND PLEDGE OF INTERESTS

Section 14.1 Assignability of Interests. No Member may assign the whole or any part of its
Interests, without complying with the terms of this Agreement.

Section 14.2. Recognition of Assignment by Company. No assignment or pledge of any
Interest, or any part thereof, that is in violation of this Article XTV shall be valid or effective, and neither
the Company nor the Members shall recognize the same for the purpose of making distributions
pursuant to this Agreement. Neither the Company nor the Members shall incur any liability as a result of

refusing to make any such distributions to the assignee of any such invalid assignment.

Section 14.3. Pledge. No Member may pledge or otherwise encumber the whole or any part
of its Interests, without prior written consent of all Members.

-23.


ARTICLE XV

DISSOLUTION, LIQUIDATION AND TERMINATION

Section 15.1 No Dissolution, The Company shall not be dissolved by the admission of
Additional Members or substitute Members in accordance with the terms of this Agreement,

Section 15.2 Events Causing Dissolution The Company shall be dissolved and its affairs
shall be wound up upon the occurrence of any of the following events:

(1) the written consent of all Members;

(ii) the death, retirement, resignation, expulsion, bankruptcy, or dissolution of a
Member or the occurrence of any other event under the Maine Act that terminates the
continued membership of a Member in the Company unless, within ninety (90) days after the
occurrence of such an event, all of the remaining Members agree in writing to continue the
business of the Company; or

(til) the entry of a decree of Judicial dissolution of the Company.

Section 15.3 Liquidation. Upon dissolution of the Company, the Board shall carry out the

) Winding up of the Company and shall immediately commence to wind up the Company's affairs;

. provided, however, that a reasonable time shall be allowed for the orderly liquidation of the assets of the
Company and the satisfaction of liabilities to creditors so as to enable the Members to minimize the
normal losses attendant upon a liquidation. The Members shall continue to distribute Interest Profits and
Losses during liquidation in the same proportions, as specified in Article VIT] hereof, as before
liquidation. The proceeds of liquidation shall be distributed in the following order and pnonty:

(1) to creditors of the Company, including Members who are creditors, to the
extent otherwise permitted by law, in satisfaction of the liabilities of the Company (whether by
Payment or the making of reasonable provision for payment thereof); and

(ii) to the Members in accordance with their Capital Account balances, after giving
effect to all contributions, distributions and allocations for all periods.

Section 15.4 Termination The Company shall terminate when all of the assets of the
Company, after payment of or due provision for all debts, liabilities, and obligations of the Company,
shall have been distributed to the Members in the manner provided for in this Article XV and the
Articles shall have been canceled in the manner required by the Maine Act.

-24-


Section 15.5 Claims of the Members. The Members and former Members shall look solely
to the Company's assets for the retum of their Capital Contributions, and if the assets of the Company
remaining after payment of or due provision for all debts, liabilities, and obligations of the Company are
insufficient to retum such Capital Contributions, the Members and former Members shall have no
recourse against the Company or any other Member.

ARTICLE XVI

TRANSFER RESTRICTIONS

Section 16.1 Transfer Procedures. Each transfer of Interests of the Company shall be made
on Schedule A of this Agreement. The person in whose name Interests stand on Schedule A of this
Agreement shall be deemed the owner thereof for all purposes as regards the Company, and the
Company shall not be bound to recognize any equitable or other claim to or interest in such Interests on
the part of any other person, whether or not it shall have express or other notice thereof, except as
otherwise provided by law,

Section 16.2 Restrictions on Transfer. No Member shall have the right to transfer Interests
of the Company except in compliance with the restrictions on transfer set forth below. For purposes of
this section, the term "transfer" means any transfer, whether outright or as security, inter vivos or
testamentary, with or without consideration, voluntary or involuntary, by division of marital property or
otherwise, of all or any part of any nght, title, or interest (including without limitation voting rights and
rights to dividends or liquidation proceeds) in or to any Interests, other than a transfer of voting rights by
delivery of a revocable proxy. The provisions of this Article shall be applicable to any transfer of
Interests of the Company notwithstanding any prior transfer made in compliance with this Article or any
prior transfer made pursuant to any waiver of the Company's rights hereunder, Such Interests or any
beneficial interest therein held by any person subsequent to such transfers shall be subject in every
respect to these restrictions. Ifa transferring Member fails to comply with the transfer procedures and
restrictions contained in this Agreement, then so long as such failure continues (i) the Interests in
question will be deemed not to be voted and (ii) no dividend or distribution declared on such Interests
shall be paid by the Company.

Section 16.3 Party to this Agreement. No sale, assignment, pledge, or gift, or other transfer
of Interests shall be valid or enforceable unless the proposed transferee (i) is already a party to this
Agreement, as then in effect, or (ii) has delivered to the Company a written undertaking to become a
party to this Agreement, as may be amended from time to time.

Section 16.4 Waiver. Upon any proposed transfer of Interests pursuant to Sections 16.9,
16.10, and 16.11 of this Agreement, the parties agree that the Company and the other Members shall

~-25-
 30
Case 3:05-cv-30076-MAP Document 15-2 Filed 04/26/2005 Page 26 of

Section 16.5 Securities Opinion No Member may transfer, and no person may acquire,
beneficial or record ownership of any Interests of the Company unless the transferee or transferor
provides the Company an opinion of counsel, in form and substance Satisfactory to the Board or the
President, that such transfer will not violate the securities registration requirements of any applicable
secunties laws and will not cause the loss of any securities exemption on which the Company is relying
with respect to prior sales or transfers of securities. The Company shall not be required to bear the
expense of any such opinion of counsel. The Board or the President may waive this requirement for

good cause,

Section 16.6 Right of First Refusal Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, any sale
or other transfer of Interests of the Company for value shall be made only pursuant to a bona fide
written agreement with the Proposed transferee and shall be Subject to the right of first refusal set forth
below. Asa condition to any such sale or other transfer, the transferring Member shall deliver to the
Company and all other Members of the Company written notice of the proposed transfer, which notice
shall (i) contain a true and complete copy of the agreement by which the transferee Proposes to acquire
the Interests and (ii) set forth with particularity (to the extent not specified in such agreement) the identity
and address of the proposed transferee, the Percentage Interests and number of LLC Votes to be
transferred, the price, the terms of payment, all conditions to the transferee's obligation to acquire the
Interests, and the date on which such proposed transfer is to be consummated. Such notice shall be
deemed to constitute an offer by the transferring Member to sell al] (but not less than all) of the specified
Interests to the Company, its designees, and the other Members on terms equivalent to those offered by
the proposed transferee. The Company, its designees (as determined by the Board), and the other
Members may accept such offer by delivering written notice of acceptance to the transferring Member

If the aggregate Interests offered to be purchased exceeds the number to be transferred, the available
Interests shall be allocated first to the Company to the full extent of its offer to purchase, then to the
Members (allocated among them on a pro rata basis as determined by the Board), and finally (to the
extent that the aggregate Interests offered to be purchased by the Company and the other Members is
less than the total number to be transferred) to designees of the Company. During the pendency of such
offer, the transferring Member shall promptly provide such further information conceming the proposed
transfer as the Company may reasonably request in writing. Closing of the purchase of the Interests by
the Company, its designees, or other Members shall take place within ninety (90) days after the date on
which a valid notice of transfer was received by the Company. If acceptance and closing by the
Company, its designees, and other Members have not occurred within the periods set forth above, the
transferring Member shall have the right for sixty (60) days thereafter to transfer all (but not less than all)
of the Interests to the original proposed transferee for the consideration specified in the original notice of
transfer, subject to other terms and conditions of this Agreement. The right of first refusal provided in
this subsection shall not be applicable to any transfer of Interests directly to the Company.

-26-


Section 16.7 Other Rules Regarding Transfer, Etc. The Board may, from time to time, adopt
by resolution such additional Tules and regulations as it deems expedient, not inconsistent with this
Agreement concerning the issue and transfer of Interests of the Company,

Section 16.8 Waivers of Restrictions on Transfer, Notwithstanding anything to the contrary,
the Board may waive the applicability of any transfer restrictions contained in this Agreement or any
resolution of the Board, if and to the extent that the Board deems a waiver for the particular transaction
to be in the best interests of the Company. No such waiver shall be effective unless duly adopted by
resolution of the Board.

ARTICLE XV

MISCELLANEOUS

Section 17.1 Notices. All notices provided for in this Agreement shall be in writing, duly
signed by the party giving such notice, and shall be delivered, mailed via an overnight courier service,
telecopied or mailed by registered or certified mail, as follows:

(i) if given to the Company at the address specified in Section 2.5 of this
Agreement;

(ui) if given to a Director, at such Director's mailing address as provided to the
Company; or

(iii) if given to any Member at the address set forth opposite its name on Schedule
A attached hereto, or at such other address as such Member may hereafter designate by written
notice to the Company.

All such notices shall be deemed to have been given when received.

Section 17.2 Failure to Pursue Remedies. The failure of any party to seek redress for
violation of, or to insist upon the strict performance of, any provision of this Agreement shall not prevent
a subsequent act, which would have originally constituted a violation, from having the effect of an

Original violation,

Section 17.3. Cumulative Remedies. The rights and remedies provided by this Agreement are
cumulative and the use of any one right or remedy by any party shal! not preclude or waive its right to

-27-
 f 30
Case 3:05-cv-30076-MAP Document 15-2 ~~ Filed 04/26/2005 Page 280

use any or all other remedies, Said rights and remedies are given in addition to any other rights the
parties may have by Law or otherwise.

Section 17.4 Binding Fffect. This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of
all of the parties and, to the extent permitted by this Agreement, their successors, legal representatives

and assigns.

Section 17.5 Interpretation. Throughout this Agreement, nouns, pronouns and verbs shall be
construed as masculine, feminine, neuter, singular or plural, whichever shall be applicable. All
references herein to "Articles," "Sections" and "Paragraphs" shall refer to corresponding provisions of

this Agreement,

Section 17.6 Severabi lity. The invalidity or unenforceability of any particular provision of this
Agreement shall not affect the other provisions hereof. and this Agreement shall be construed in all
respects as if such invalid or unenforceable provision were omitted,

Section 17.7 Counterparts. This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts
with the same effect as if al] parties hereto had signed the same document. All counterparts shall be
construed together and shall constitute one instrument.

Section 17.8 Integration. This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement among the parties
hereto pertaining to the subject matter hereof and Supersedes all prior agreements and understandings

pertaining thereto,

Section 17.9 Goveming Law. This Agreement and the rights of the parties hereunder shall be
interpreted in accordance with the laws of the State of Maine, and all rights and remedies shall be
govemed by such laws without regard to principles of conflict of laws.

Section 17.10 Amendments. Any amendment to this Agreement shall be adopted and be
effective as an amendment hereto if it received the affirmative vote of all of the Members, provided that
such amendment be in writing and executed by all of the Members.

Section 17.11 No Implied Rights or Remedies. Nothing expressed or implied shall be
construed fo confer upon any Person, except the Members and Managers, any rights or remedies under

or by reason of this Agreement.

~28-
 Page 29 of 30
21 2085 12:25PM pS

: 7 * H 4

en

1

, .
. ’ . ‘ .
. .

mnt
*
.
.
8 aa

’
| t
}
'
| :
’
l
i
'
j
:
i
t
| ‘
’
‘
i
>
‘
‘
.
‘
‘
:
'
'
?
‘
‘ a
" *
1
+ * ,
'
' t ' ‘ ; |
+
‘
; » * . :
. . * , :
‘ 2" ‘
€ € ‘ ‘ ‘
t |
’
ra ‘ |
* ‘ ‘ | |
. ' oe -
’ vt
+f | .
. 7 t ’ . ‘
+ 1 8 ea . :
vs ; :
| - 7 ’ ' . ;
’ . . 1 ‘ ) |
a . ’ . | |
: ' € ‘ |
+
', a ' ; |
* ‘ |
‘ ' . |
s ‘ |
4
2 ,
. ‘ . 3
‘
a t
. ‘ . ’ ‘ |
' va, |
* * ‘ ‘, at : , |
t
+ ‘
* ’ :
: * . . '
‘ oe , | |
* ‘
‘ : ’ v .
’ e a ton | |
. *
; tio . af Toe yt eth Fy . '
- : . t 4 ,
us 2 . ’ '
| . no, _ . ‘ i
. ’ ’ _ .
| , ‘ ai
. ’ ,
‘ ‘ |
. ; . v, . bi at ' t
, . ; 7 ’
' ‘ ‘ 5 | | |
. ’
. as
‘ s ‘ af ‘ .
‘
‘ 4 ' id ‘ ,
: ad ' ' ‘
| ; . aT ; t
4 , | |
. 4 “ -
«
‘ ,
* ' , :
* * to ‘ ‘ a
| ; ; ; ' a * + +
’
. |
* ,
. . ve ‘ , ‘ ‘
q . |
! |
+ . |
‘ :
+ ‘ ; .
: |
; . : Tote “ade . 7
; 7 3 ‘ : :
- wedadievelio, . . , ae ; . av wey . , 4 .
ae . ? omy ‘
; . ; ; ’ parerae ita ‘ ‘ ‘
' ve
‘ . .
1, ‘
5

n
. a)
 Case 3:05-cv-30076-MAP Document 15-2 ~~ Filed 04/26/2005 Page 30 of 30

SCHEDULE A
MEMBERS
Mailing Capital Percentage = Member

Name Address Contributions Interest Votes
LSB 101 Cabot Street

Holyoke, MA 01040 $00,001.00 49.0% 49
DMSA One Enterprise Drive $50,000.00 51.0% 51

Newfoundland, PA 18445-0089

100% 100

P ASCKDMSAoper.agr.doc

-30-