

EXHIBIT 64


AGREEMENT AND DECLARATION OF TRUST
ESTABLISHING THE
NEWSPAPER AND MAIL DELIVERERS’ --
PUBLISHERS’ PENSION FUND,

AS AMENDED AND RESTATED

Adopted as of February 20, 1956
and amended and restated,
effective as of September 1, 1993.

FUNDO0002272


AGREEMENT AND DECLARATION OF TRUST
ESTABLISHING THE

NEWSPAPER AND MAIL DELIVERERS’

PUBLISHERS’ PENSION FUND

TABLE OF CONTENTS

ARTICLE 1 - DEFINITIONS .. ... »

es

MEE PO OAHU WN

WH ©

° ® o s 2 ty 2 e «

a

* * a

1.14
1.15
1.16
1.18

1.19.

1.20
1.21
1.22
1.23
1.24
1.25

ARTICLE 2 ~ NAME, PURPOSE AND OPERATION

3.1
3.2
3.3

"Administrator" ...
"Agreement™ or "Trust Agreement"

WAssociation™ fos.

"authorized Person"
"Beneficiary". .°. .)
"Board * , e s e

"Code™ 2 ok el ee ee
"Collective Bargaining Agreene

"Collective Trust!:.
"Committee" . 2. 2
"Covered Employee"...
"Custodian® . . . =. .

Employers"® . .« » .
"Employer Trustee" .
NERISA" , 2. © «© © « «=
"Foreign Securities"

"Tnstruct" or "Instructions"

"Investment Manager"

"Tnvestment Manager Account"

i" Pi an" = 2 * s e * *

"securities" or "Security"
"Trust," "Trust Fund," or

"Trustee(s)" ... .
"Union™ . 2. 2 2 «© «© «
"Union Trustee" ...,

Nam@ . « «© «© «© » # e«
Purpose . «6 « « «© « «
Operation 7 8 °

« * a

*

»

e
&
m-

e..
a
*
*
2s
s
a
e
a
a
*

%

%

*

_@

ae

"Employer". or "Employers".

¢

@

®

.

o

a

?

*

a

eo 8 8 @
.

eo 8 woe.

& rs a * *
o + «© @
. © 8 8 6
e: ve . ee
ment" ,
es ro | * »
a 8 8 ee
oe 8 8
o 8 © ee
or. "Contr
eo 8 # 8 8
«2 es «a
os 8 8 ©
- + ws ©
eo 2 8

s * A .& *
s 8 e

e ' « ry * *
o 8 es
"FPund' ,
. es ew we
oe 8 ew
oe @ ©

OF TRUST

o 8 8 ew

ft

* * ry - s * s * » * * * e e

3 Ld * s * > a & s e .

&

®

&

ar)
* « fhe 6 «

4
os = # © 6 © © # © @ 2 © © ME we 8s &© © © © &# © © © 2 @

& e * e a * . a ° a ”

Participation by. contributi om Employers
Obligations of Contributing Employers .

TRUSTEES . . teen

*

*

*

Composition of Trustees .....
Acceptance of Trust and Trusteeship

Selection of Trustees

*

*

a

*

*

* . : * » e¢ @ * s e °

® « * e *

e * * *

2 2 ° « *

a * » a e * e s a s *

* * > ] * 6 a % « ° e

2 %

* » * s a * od * s * > e * e ® e & e e a ® > 2 * *

* * 2 a *

E
s))
iD

i

he de ob oe oe GF U2 Oo) Od G) GU)

AANAUU OU UU Oe

 ~} 3} “3s ~J

Xe

FUND0002273


Page
3.4 Written Appointments and Acceptances ..... 9
3.5 Term of Office .... 5. 5+ «© «© © © we ween 9
3.6 Resignations ..... 4. 2 «© «© ee es ew we ewe 9
3.7 Removal of Employer Trustees ......... 20
3.8 Removal of Union Trustees . .......6 « » » 10
3.9 Successor Employer Trustees ..... +... .. 10
3.10 Successor Union Trustees .......6+ « « iO
3.11 Powers of Successor Trustees .....+.«... 120

4.1 Benefits ..... * © © © © © © © © ew ©) 42
4.2 Written Plan of Benefits. a a: 17
4,3 Insurance Contracts .. 1... 2. 2 «© © © © «© @ « 13
4.4 Exclusive Benefit... a eB
4.5 No Assignment of Benefits FC

ARTICLE 5 = POWERS AND DUTIES OF TRUSTEES ...... +s «© « 14
5.1 Receipt of Payments .......4+.64600e28-e 24
5.2 Payment of Benefits . . . . 6. 6 © © © © w» ww 14
5.3 ExpenseS . 4.6 6 6 6 2 «© © ee we ew ew th ew we) 4
5.4 Insurance Contracts . .. . 6 «1 © «© © © «© «© « . 25
5.5 General Powers of Trustees .......6-e.. 16
5.6 Committees . 1. 1. 6 ee ew te ew tw eh th th wt et 24
5.7 Standard of Care ..... 6 «© «© « © «© © @ «0 25
5.8 Reliance on Written Instruments and Advice of
Professionals . . 1... 1. 1 8 © ew we ew ew ew ew ew) 25
5.9 Indemnification . 2... 6... 6 ee ee ew wg) 25
5.10 Bonding . 2. 2 6 2 5 6 ee ew ew ee tw ee tl eg BG
5.11 Fiduciary Insurance . , : © ee we we ew ew cw) BG
5.12 Deposit and Withdrawal of Funds a
5.13 Delegation of Power... .. 2. se we wag 27
5.14 Discretionary Authority . 1... 0.60.00. 2 we we 27
5.15 Execution of Documents. . . 2. 2 + © » «© © © 2 e D7
ARTICLE 6 ~ MEETINGS AND DECISIONS OF TRUSTEES ....... 28
6.1 Officers ... . eo 8 © «© © © © © © © © «© «© « 28
6.2 Calling of Meetings co 8 © 6 ee we we lw ltl ltl le!) CBB
6.3 QUOTUM . © « «© «© » «© «© © © © @ = @ -« - © «© «© © 28
6.4 Vote of Trustees . . . . 1. 1. 1 2 «© © © te ew ew gw) BB
6.5 Minutes of Meetings ..... 2.6.66 2. ee wee 29
6.6 Arbitration . 1. 2... 1 1 ee ee ew ew ee ew BQ
ARTICLE 7 ~ ALLOCATION OF RESPONSIBILITIES ....... -« « =331
7.1 The Administrator .....4.4.4..86+ee.e-. 32
7.2 The Board . 2. 1. 6 2 2 1 6 8 ee ww ew te we ww wg BL

ii

FUND0002274


ARTICLE 8 ~- INVESTMENT MANAGERS 2). 6 2 2 2 2 9
8.1 Appointment of Investment ‘Managers:
(8.2 Authorization ete ee oe ee
8.3 Acknowledgments .°. 5.09. 2 8 ee
8.4 Direction by Investment Manager | .
8.5 Review by Board wo. wv ve Lee
8.6 Issuance of Orders =. Bos oe
8.7 Authority of Investment Manager .
8.8 Investment Guidelines ... 2...

ARTICLE 9 ~ PAYMENTS TO THE FUND . ~~... .

2 * » e * ]

» a *

1 8 OW. O19 www

RW DATA OF ® WwW bo pe

0
ARTICLE 10 =-

10.1
10.2
10.3

ARTICLE 11 ~

L1l.1
11.2

ARTICLE 12 -

12.1
12.2
12.3
12.4
12.5
12.6

12.7
12.8
12.9
12.10
12.11
12.12
12.13

Rate of contributions’ ee ee
Effective Date of Contributions .
Mode of Payment wo. ee ee ee
Failure to Make Employer Contribut
Default in Payment: 2°. o. 20.0.
Enforcement Actions ..... . »
Payments Required by: Court” Award.
No Waiver of Other Rights ..°..

Remittance Reports and Audits ....

* e * : td

io

>
a
«
ot
2
*

Arbitration of Withdrawal Ldability.

“Amendment oo ew ee rar . e
Limitation of Amendments ... .
-Termination es ee ee
ACCOUNTS OF THE BOARD es

Board to Maintain trust’ Accounts
Valuation - e ® a 2 & LO

MISCELLANEOUS «2 ee we eee

Situs e & e * ® 2 2 a 2 ® *

Choice of Law. . « « 2 1 «© w « ©
Counterparts . we a ee
Titles; Plurals; and Gender...
Service of Process 2... 5.7. ee

Validity of Trustees’ Accounts. and
Instruments. ..

Definitions . . 1 «+ 6 + es we we
Notices . 2. 6 6 6 s's6 © 2 8 6 « e
Severability . . . 1. 2 8 © » «+
Legal Compliance ... 2. ....
Successor Provisions of Law...
Entire Agreement . .. . .» » « «
Construction . 1... +. »« « « « »«

iii

° oe * *

* a « *

° e* @ >

Disputes

a) & 8 6 os

es. x» eo

em « 68

Page 5 of 59

* * « * a e a eo

* » «© © & 2 @ «&

» e s 2 *

® ® * 6 a

- * * . s 2 * =

_*  @ 8 @ @

* s

s » . a

>

e & * *  ® es

* @ ° e

e « * * oJ e «

* 2 * *

AMENDMENT; ‘TERMINATION; AND TRANSFER OF ASSETS

2 e.
.* > * 2

* 9 © '@ e-

2 = 8. &

2s ® * e * 2 ry #

ae

* 8  @ @ #@

2 ® * * 2

37

37
37
37

37
38

38
38
39
39
39

40

40

40
42

42
42

43

43
43
43
43
43

43

4A
44>

45
45
45
45
45

FUND0002275


Page

12.14 Inurement e 8 5 © © © © © © © @ ew ew elt ltl ltl lw le) 4S

12.16 Trust Grants No Interest to Employees eo 2 e © «© 46

12.17 Duration of Agreement ....... s 6 «© «© « o) 46
iv

FUND0002276



one PREAMBLE

_ THIS AGREEMENT AND DECLARATION OF TRUST, adopted
as of February 20, 1956, and amended and restated, effective as
of the September 1, 1993, establishing the Newspaper and’ Mail
Deliverers’ -- Publishers’ Pension Fund (the "Fund" or "Plan"),
by and among (a) The Publishers’ Association of New York City
(the "Association"), acting on behalf of employers in the
newspaper delivery industry who are members of the Association,
and such other employers which from time. to time become
contributing employers hereunder, and their successors and
assigns (collectively, the “Employers") and The Newspaper and
Mail Deliverers’ Union of New York and Vicinity and its
affiliates and their successors and assigns (collectively, the
"tnion"), and (b) the following individuals: JOSEPH COTTER,
BARBARA KALISH, PATRICK LAGAN, ROBERT NUSSPICKLE, and FRANK
SPARACINO, and their successors and assigns (such persons, and
others who from time to time are designated hereunder, being
hereinafter collectively referred to as the "Trustees" of the

Fund).

ee ume

WHEREAS, the Union and the Employers have executed,
and may from time to time hereafter execute, collective
bargaining agreements ("Collective Bargaining Agreements") which,
among other things, establish the Plan and require periodic
Employer contributions to it; |

WHEREAS, the Collective Bargaining Agreements conten-
plate that the Union and the Association will execute a Trust

Agreement and appoint Trustees;

WHEREAS, to effectuate the aforesaid purpose, this
Agreement and Declaration of Trust is made and shall be known as
the Newspaper and Mail Deliverers’ -- Publishers’ Pension Fund
(the "Trust," "Fund" or "Trust Fund") to be used for the
exclusive purpose of providing pension and retirement benefits to
certain employees of the Employers ("Covered Employees") and
their dependents or beneficiaries (the "Beneficiaries") eligible

to participate in the Plan;

WHEREAS, the Trustees now desire to amend and restate
the existing agreement and declaration of trust establishing the
Fund, dated February 20, 1956 as amended on June 1, 1976 and from

time to time thereafter; and

WHEREAS, Paragraph 18 of the Trust Agreement
authorizes the Trustees to amend the provisions of the Trust

Agreement.

FUND0002277

 4
%
ad



NOW, THEREFORE, for and in consideration of the prom-
ises and mutual covenants herein contained, and other good and
valuable consideration (receipt of which is hereby acknowledged),
it is hereby mutually understood and agreed by the parties hereto

as follows:

FUND0002278


| DEFINITIONS _

“Whenever used in ‘this ‘Agreement, unless: ‘the context
otherwise requires, the following words shall have the respective

meanings set forth below:

: 1.1 "Administrator" shall mean the Board, or any
individual or other person duly authorized by the Board to
administer the Plan.

1.2 "“Agreement'! or "Trust Agreement! shall mean the
Agreement and Declaration of Trust establishing the Newspaper and
Mail Deliverers’-~Publishers’ Pension Fund adopted as of
February 20, 1956, as from time to time amended and restated,
which constitutes the funding vehicle for the Plan for the
benefit of Covered Employees and certain of their Beneficiaries.

1.3 "Association" shall mean the Publishers’
Association of New York.

1.4 “Authorized Person"! shall mean, with respect to
the Trust Fund, both the Chairman and Secretary of the Board, any
individual Trustee or member of any Committee of Trustees duly
authorized by the Board to represent said Committee or the Board,
and the Administrator where the Administrator has been duly
authorized by the Board to represent the Board or the Trust Fund
in a specific matter (or their duly authorized agents). With re-
spect to an Investment Manager Account, the term "Authorized
Person" shall mean any officer (or partner) of the Investment
Manager duly appointed by the Board to manage the assets of such
Investment Manager Account or any other person or persons as may
be duly designated by such officer (or partner). With respect to
a Custodian, the term "Authorized Person" shall mean any officer

of said Custodian.

1.5 "Beneficiary" shall mean a Covered Employee's
spouse, or such other person or entity who, as a result of his
relationship to the Covered Employee, is entitled under the terms
of the Plan to receive benefits, if any, under the Plan following

the death of the Covered Employee.

1.6 “Board shall mean the individuals from time to
time acting collectively as the Board of Trustees under this
Agreement, which shall also be the "named fiduciary" (as that
term is defined in Section 402(a)(2) of ERISA) and the "adminis-
trator" (as that term is defined. in Section 3(16) (A) of ERISA) of
the Plan, appointed to control and manage the operation and
overall administration of the Plan and the Trust Fund.

FUND0002279


ee

1.7 "Code" shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of
1936, as from time to time amended, and all rules, regulations
and interpretations promulgated pursuant thereto.

1.8 "Collective Bargaining Agreement" shall mean,
collectively, each collective bargaining agreement, participation
agreement, or other written agreement between an Employer and the
Union, which is in force and effect and is acceptable to the
Board, requiring contributions to be made to this Trust Fund on
behalf of a Covered Employee (and/or a Beneficiary).

‘1.9 "Collective Trust" shall mean any pooled, group,
common, commingled or collective trust fund maintained by a bank,
trust company or broker-dealer. The trustees of such Collective
Trust shall become trustees of the allocable share of the Trust
Fund assets transferred and deposited with such Collective Trust,
and shall have sole and exclusive authority and discretion to
manage and control (including the power to invest and reinvest)
such assets. The Board shall not be liable for any act or
omission of any trustee of a Collective Trust, or be under any
obligation to invest or otherwise manage any assets of the Trust
Fund that have been transferred thereto. The provisions of the
agreement establishing such Collective Trust shall be deemed to
be incorporated by reference into this Agreement (to the extent
that the provisions thereof are not inconsistent with the terms

of this Agreement).

- 21.10 "Committee" shall mean any committee duly ap-
pointed and authorized by the Board pursuant to this Agreement
(containing at least one Employer Trustee and one Union Trustee).

1.11 "Covered Employee" shall mean an individual
employed by an Employer who is covered under the terms of a
Collective Bargaining Agreement between the Employer and the
Union requiring contributions to the Fund on behalf of said

individual.

1.12 "Custodian" shall mean one or more banks, trust
companies, or broker-dealers selected by the Board as a "Corpo~
rate Trustee" (as that term is defined in Section 3.12) and/or
custodian of Trust Fund Securities.

1.13 "Employer" or "Employers" or "Contributing Em-
ployers® shall mean any employer required to contribute to the
Plan on behalf of Covered Employees pursuant to a Collective
Bargaining Agreement with the Union.

1.14 "Employer Trustee" shall mean each individual
designated as an Employer Trustee pursuant to Section 3.3(a), and
their successors and assigns.

FUND0002280


-. 1.15 "ERISA" shall mean the Employee Retirement Income
Security Act of 1974, as. from time to time. anended, and alt rules
and regulations promulgated. pursuant thereto... | .

_- 1.16 "Fereign. Securities" shall: mean any securities
described in Section: 404 (b) of. ‘ERISA and 29 (c. F. Re an 2550. 404b-1.

a a. 17. urnstruct"™ or. "Instructions" shall mean. written
communications signed: by an Authorized Person’ (including, without
limitation, instructions received by telex or any other such. |
systen, whereby the receiver of such communication is able to
verify with a reasonable. degree” of” certainty the identity of the
sender of such» communication). Coiba at ist |

ooo. 18 “Investment. Manager" ‘shall. mean any: ‘person. or.
entity that has been’ ‘appointed. by the Board: pursuant: to this ©
Agreement. to manage, acquire or. dispose. of any: Securities. or”
other property of the Trust: Fund who- is, and: has) acknowledged in
writing. to the’ Board: that-it is, (a) a fiduciary (within the
meaning. of Section 3(21): of ERISA). with. respect: to the. assets
held in -its Investment: Manager. Account}: ‘and is’ (b). either=(1) an.
investment. manager - registered. ‘in: good. standing. under. the invest—
ment Advisers Act of 1940, (2). a. bank. (as, defined in’ said’ Act}:
located within the United States or, (3).an insurance® company
qualified. ‘under the laws of more. than.one state to manage,» ~ “
acquire. or dispose of employee benefit plan assets. “<The Board
shall have the right, in its sole and absolute discretion, to
appoint. the Custodian as an Investment Manager for all or a
portion of. the Trust. Fund : Securities or other: property."

1. 19 winvestment Manager Recount" shall mean that
portion of the Trust: Fund which has’ been. segregated by the
Trustees for. investment. management by. one. or more Investment.
Manager(s)*,.. each of which shall. constitute | a | Separate Investment

Manager. Account. 925°.

1.20 "Plan! shall mean the detailed rules and reguia-
tions of the Newspaper and Mail. Deliverers’ ~~) Publishers’
Pension. Fund, and.any amendments. or. modifications: thereto; fron
time. to time adopted: ‘by the Board setting forth, inter alia, the
basis on which eligibility for benefits and the nature, type, ~
form, amount and duration of benefits shall be made to Covered
Employees. and Beneficiaries, which. ‘shall bes ‘funded under the

Trust Fund.
1. 21 «ugecurities" or “gecurity". shall - mean ‘all Trust:
Fund securities of any and every kind wherever situated, and any
rights or. interests therein, including, but not:limited to, (a)
common and preferred stocks, including,: without. limitation, the
stock of an Employer (or any parent, subsidiary or other’ person
associated or affiliated therewith) constituting "qualifying
employer securities" (as that term is defined in Section 407 of
ERISA), but only to the extent permitted by ERISA); (b) obli-

5

FUND0002281
 ae



Scope

gations of the United States Government or any government of a
state of the United States (and each of their agencies and
instrumentalities); (c) bonds, debentures, notes and other
evidences of indebtedness or ownership, including, without
limitation, bonds, debentures or notes of an Employer (or any
parent, subsidiary or other person associated or affiliated
therewith) constituting "qualifying employer securities" (as that
term is defined in Section 407 of ERISA), but only to the extent
permitted by ERISA); (d) savings and time deposits (including,
without limitation, any deposits bearing a reasonable rate of
interest that the Custodian, or a bank or similar financial
institution appointed as a trustee or custodian hereunder by the
Board, makes in itself or in any parent, subsidiary or other
person associated or affiliated therewith, to the extent permit-
ted by law); (e) bankers’ acceptances; (f) commercial paper
(including participation in pooled commercial paper accounts) ;
(g) Collective Trusts; (h) Foreign Securities; (1) participation
units or certificates issued by investment companies or invest-
ment trusts; (j) insurance policies or contracts; and (k) any
options, warrants or other instruments representing rights to
receive, purchase, or subscribe for the same, or evidencing or
representing any other rights or interest therein.

1.22 uprust," "Trust Fund," or "Fund" shall mean all
cash, Securities and other property which at the time of refer-~
ence shall have been deposited in the trust account established
pursuant to this Agreement or held by a Custodian, including any
portion thereof which has been segregated in an Investment Man-
ager Account or held under a group trust or Collective Trust.

1.23 "Trustee(s)" shall mean the individual Employer
Trustees, the individual Union Trustees, and, when acting as
Trustees, their successors and assigns (if such Successor
Trustees have been appointed, as provided in Section 3.9 or
Section 3.10).

1.24 "Union" shall mean the Newspaper and Mail
Deliverers’ Union of New York and Vicinity, and any affiliates
thereof.

1.25 "Union Trustee" shall mean each individual desig-
nated as a Union Trustee pursuant to Section 3.3(b), and their

successors and assigns.

FUND0002282


ARTICLE 2

AME, PURPOSE AND. OPERATION ‘OF TRUST

os _ Name. 8 ‘The. Trust. shall. ‘be ‘known as ‘the "Newspaper
and Mail peliverers’ ~~ publishers’. Pension, ‘Fund.. wo | aa

7 purpose. — “the trust is established ‘for. the “exélu-
sive purgese "26 providing, certain pension. ‘and ‘related | benefits. ‘to
Covered. Employees. under the. Plan, and, shall further provide the
means for. financing | and maintaining ‘the: operation and - administra-
tion of the Trust. and Plan in accordance with. this Agreenent, the

Plan, and applicable law.

2. 3. ‘Operation.. It. is. intended that. this Prust shall
be established ‘and operated in a manner that. shall qualify it as
an organization exempt from income taxation in. accordance. with
Section 501(a). of. the. Code. | Notwithstanding anything. ‘to the | a
contrary contained herein, the Trust: shall be operated . exclusive-.
ly for such. purposes. as- will. compl ith. section 401 (a). and
501(a) .of.. the Code, . and. to the extent. that anything. herein is
inconsistent ‘therewith, ‘this. Agreement. shall be. deemed. amended. in
such fashion as will implement the purposes of this Trust while |

continuing. to comply. with the. requirements of. the. Code.

Tt is further. intended tha this ‘Trust. shall be. estab-
lished. and. operated. in. a manner that ‘complies | with, ERISA. To. the
extent. ‘that anything, herein, is. inconsistent with. ERISA, this a
Agreement | shall. be: deemed amended in such. fashion as. wild imple-
‘ment the purposes of this Trust while continuing to comply with
the requirements of ERISA. ree

“The Trust shall. also be. ‘established and ‘operated, as. a.
"jointly-administered". ‘pension: fund | within the meaning of, and in
accordance with, Section 302(c) of ‘the ‘Labor “Management. Relations

Act of 1947, as amended.

a 2.4 ‘participation. by. Contributing Employers. Any .
contributing Employer acceptable to the Trustees may participate
in the Trust and the Plan by:

(a) executing a copy of. a Collective: Bar- .
- gaining Agreement ‘approved. by. the. Board.
requiring contributions to be made by
such Employer to the Fund;

(b) designating a date on which such par-
ticipation shall become effective; and

(c) designating the categories of employ-
ment of Covered Employees to partici-
pate in such Plan.

FUND0002283


2.5 Obligations of Contributing Employers. An

Employer shall be deemed to have:

(a)

(b)

(c)

(a)

reviewed, understood and adopted the
Trust and all provisions of this Agree-
ment and the Plan which it establishes
hereunder (and any amendments to such
Agreement or Plan);

agreed to be bound unconditionally to
said Plan and Trust, as well as all of
the decisions of the Trustees appointed
pursuant hereto;

agreed to be bound unconditionally to
the provisions of the Plan and all
amendments thereto; and

agreed to pay the costs of the Plan
applicable to its Covered Employees by
means of periodic contributions as set
forth in the Plan, a Collective Bar-
gaining Agreement, or other document,
or as may be required by law.

FUND0002284



. ARTICLE

| TRUSTEES

3.2: “composition of: Trustees. “The. Trustees under this
Agreement, who shall be Trustees of' of the Trust created and estab-
lished hereunder, shall be two. (2). ‘Employer. Trustees, who shall
be selected by the Association, and three’(3) Union Trustees, who
shall be selected by the Union. The appointment of Trustees
shall be governed by the provisions of Section 3.4.

3.2 Acceptance: of Trust and ‘Trusteeship. The Trust-
ees appointed hereunder hereby accept the Trust created and
established by this Agreement and consent to act as Trustees
thereof by assuming the: responsibility for the operation and
administration of the’ Trust.” By. their® sigriature to this Agree~
ment, or any counterpart or: ‘COpy: hereof, each Trustee hereby
agrees to accept the trusteeship and to act in their capacities
as trustees and fiduciaries of. the: Trust’ Fund in accordance with

the provisions of this: Agreement.

3. 3 ‘Selection of. mouataaa,

(a a)~ ‘The Trustees currently designated by the
Association are: BARBARA KALISH and ROBERT NUSSPICKLE.

. (b) The Trustees currently designated by the
Union are: FRANK SPARACINO, PATRICK LAGAN and JOSEPH COTTER.

3.4 Written Appointments and Acceptances. Except for
the appointments of the Trustees set forth in Section 3.3 of this
Agreement, copies of the written appointments of. successor
Trustees shall be provided to the Board as soon as practicable
after the appointments. Each Trustee shall signify his
acceptance of the trusteeship in writing.

3.5 Term of Office. Each Trustee appointed under
this Agreement shall continue to serve as such until his death,
incapacity, resignation or removal as herein provided.

3.6 Resiqnations. A Trustee may resign, and shall be
fully discharged (to the extent permitted by law) from further
duty or responsibility hereunder, upon giving at least fifteen
(15) days advance written notice to the Board (and to the Con-
tributing Employer | that designated him as a Trustee), or such
shorter notice as the Board may accept as sufficient, in which
notice there shall be stated a date when such resignation shall
take effect; and such resignation shall take effect on the date
specified in the notice, unless a successor Trustee shall have
been appointed (as provided by Section 3.9 or Section 3.10) at an
earlier date, in which event such resignation shall take effect
immediately upon the successor Trustee taking office. A Trustee
shall be deemed to have resigned and shall not be replaced in the

9

FUND0002285


bis

‘ event that the Contributing Employer which designated him shall
cease to be a Contributing Employer hereunder.

3.7 Removal of Employer Trustees. Any Employer

Trustee may be removed from office at any time, with or without
cause, by instrument in writing, signed by a duly authorized
officer of the Association, filed with the Board, and shall
become effective immediately upon such filing.

3.8 Removal of Union Trustees. The Union Trustees

shall be the incumbent president, vice president and secretary-
treasurer of the Union. Those persons shall serve as Union
Trustees unless prevented from doing so by operation of
applicable law, in which case a Successor Union Trustee shall be
elected from the full-time officers of the Union. Should any
Union Trustee be removed from office by operation of law, notice
thereof shall be filed with the Board by an instrument in writing
signed by the principal officer of the Union, and shall become
effective immediately upon such filing.

3.9 Successor Employer Trustees. In the event any
Employer Trustee shall die, become incapable of acting hereunder,
resign, or be removed, a successor Employer Trustee shall be
designated by filing with the Board a certificate in writing
signed by a duly authorized officer of the Association.

3.10 Successor Union Trustees. In the event any

Union Trustee shall die, become incapable of acting hereunder,
resign or be removed, the principal officer of the Union shall
designate a successor Union Trustee by filing with the Board a
certification in writing signed by a duly authorized officer of
the Union, in which case a Successor Union Trustee shall be
elected from the full-time officers of the Union.

3.11 Powers of Successor Trustees. Any successor
Trustee under this Agreement shall immediately, upon his designa-
tion as a successor Trustee and his acceptance of the trusteeship
in writing filed with the Board, become vested with all rights,
powers, privileges and duties of a Trustee hereunder with like
effect as if originally named as Trustee.

3.12 Use of Corporate Trustee,

(a) At any time and from time to time, the Board
may appoint, as a Corporate Trustee, a bank or trust company
located within the United States.

(ob) The Board may delegate to the Corporate
Trustee (i) the power to hold the Fund as sole trustee of a trust
separate from the Fund created by this Trust Agreement (and not
as. an agent of the Trustees or as co-trustee hereunder with the
Trustees); (ii) the power to invest and reinvest the Fund in the

10

FUND0002286



wg 4
Corporate Trustee’s sole discretion; and (iii) such other duties
and powers as the Board may deem, advisable,

(c) The Board may: enter into and execute a trust
oer custodial agreement with the: Corporate Trustee, which |
agreement. shall contain such’ provisiol s. the. Board | may. deem
advisable. © ‘Upon execution of: a trust agreement. with the «
Corporate’ Trustee,” the Board may transfer and convey to the
Corporate Trustee any part or all of the” Securities or other |
property of the Fund acceptable to the. Corporate Trustee, and
thereupon, ‘the Trustees shall” be» forever released and discharged
from any responsibility. or liability with respect to such assets
so transferred as.to any period: subsequent. to such’ transfer and-
with respect to the investment and> reinvestment thereof by the
Corporate Trustee. Notwithstanding such, transfer, . the. Board .

functions ‘under the Plan in: “accordance with ‘the provisions. of the
Plan’ and this. Agreement. ae _ | .

(a) The Board: may; at any’ “time, remove the
Corporate Trustee in the manner provided | in the trust. agreement
between the Board and the Corporate Trustee. — In the event | that a
Corporate: ‘Trustee’ is: appointed, such Corporate. Trustée shall, Lt
and when. removed by the Board, ca he. transferred ‘to’ the _
Board any Trust’ Fund: ‘Securities or other. property or records. ‘then
in its possession, along with a final accounting of the Securi-
ties or other property of the Fund held and/or managed by the
Corporate’ Trustee pursuant to said agreement. . ae

11

FUND0002287

 a4



ARTICLE 4

PLAN OF BENEFITS

4.1 Benefits.

(a) The Board shall have full authority to
determine all questions of the nature, type, form, amount and
duration of benefits (including, without limitation, matters
pertaining to the interpretation and application of reciprocity
and portability agreements with other funds and plans) to be
provided to Covered Employees and their Beneficiaries. However,
no benefits other than pension, retirement, and such other
related benefits as the Board may from time to time determine,
-Iay be provided to Covered Employees and Beneficiaries or paid
for under the Trust.

(b) Payment of benefits under the Plan shall be ~~"
made directly from the Fund by the Board or may be provided for
by the purchase and delivery of such insurance contracts, poli-
cies or certificates, to such persons, in such manner, and at —
such time as the Plan shall provide. The Board shall be fully
protected in making, discontinuing or withholding benefit pay- |
ments from the Fund, or purchasing or délivering insurance
contracts, policies or certificates (or instructing the insurers
with respect thereto), all in reliance upon information received
from the Contributing Employer respecting: the status of any
Covered Employee. When any benefit payment, or the purchase or
delivery of any insurance contract, policy or certificate (or any
payment thereunder) is to be made in accordance with the terms of
the Plan only during or until the time the person entitled to
receive such benefit maintains or attains a given age or status,
or only during or until the time a certain condition exists
regarding» such person, any such payment, purchase, delivery or
instruction made, discontinued or withheld by the Trustees in
good faith, without actual knowledge or notice of the prescribed
change in the age, status or condition of the payee, shall be
considered to have been properly effected by the Board.

(c) Each Contributing Employer shall indemnify
and hold harmless the Fund and each Trustee from the consequences
of relying on any information or directions furnished to the
Board, the Administrator, or their agents by such Contributing

Employer.

4.2 Written Plan of Benefits. The specific detailed

basis upon which eligibility for benefits, types and forms of
benefits payable, and payment of benefits is to be made to
Covered Employees and Beneficiaries shall be set forth in the
Plan. The Board may amend or otherwise modify the Plan (from
time to time) or terminate the Plan (at any time).

L2

FUND0002288



ye ,
a *

4.3 Insurance Contracts.:..The written plan of bene-
fits comprising the Plan may (but need not necessarily) consist,
in whole or in part, of contracts: with‘ one or more insurance

companies.
4.4 Exclusive Benefit. If any Employer contribution

to the Trust’ Fund has been (a) made by a mistake of fact or law,
(b) the Plan status receives an. adverse determination with  ....

respect to its tax status qualification under Sections 401 or 501

under Section 404 of the Code; .and all. or a part.of such deduc~ -
tion has been disallowed; then:the,Board may,-in.its sole

discretion, return such contribution (or.the value.thereof, if  .
less) to the Employer prior to the expiration of (1) six.months -
after a determination by: the. Administrator as.to (a).above, (2)
one year following the adverse determination under. (b)..above,. or.
(3) the disallowance of the deduction under (c) above (but only ©

to the.extent of the disallowance). 9= sss 6 os: .

of the Code; or (c). conditioned upon’ the. deductibility thereof.

to "qualified domestic relations: orders" (as defined. in. Section —
-206(d) (3) of ERISA); voluntary and revocable assignments (as...

permitted by Section, 206(d) (2): of, ERISA), or:as may otherwise.be _
provided. in' the: Plan; ERISA or the Code, no benefit payable at. -
any time under the Plan prior to. receipt thereof. by a Cov
Employee (or Beneficiary), shall be subject in any manne?

3 , Shall ’b to

alienation, sale; transfer, assignment, pledge, attachment or. -
y retirement benefit, until.

encumbrance: of any kind,:nor.shall.an ) } |
actually paid to’the Covered. Employee. (or Beneficiary), be in. any
manner subject. to the debts or liabilities of said participant. _

Any attempt to alienate, sell, transfer, assign, pledge or...
otherwise encumber any such benefit, prior to receipt thereof by.

ctions set fc . the preceding sentence..shall.
and of. no effect. Benefit payments (or.,portions
the Plan or Trust shall not in any way:be subject.

restrictions set forth .in the pr

s thereof)

process, execution, attachment or garnishment, be us

payment of any <legal claim-against any such person, or be subject.
to the jurisdiction of any bankruptcy court or insolvency pro~
ceedings by operation of‘law.or otherwise and, under such circun-
stances, the Board,;.in its sole and absolute discretion, may. _
terminate or postpone any such benefit payments (or portions.
thereof) to the spouse, children and relatives of the person to

whom any such benefits are payable. Ce oe

13

FUND0002289



ARTICLE 5
RS AND D OF TRUSTEES

5.1 Receipt of Payments. The Board is hereby desig-
nated as the entity authorized to receive the Employer contribu~
tions made to the Trust, and is hereby vested with all right,
title, and interest in and to such monies and all interest
accrued thereon and appreciation thereof. The Board agrees to
receive all such payments, deposits, monies, policies or other
properties and assets, and to hold the same in trust hereunder
for the uses and purposes of the Trust and the Plan, and may
deposit all or a portion of such monies with such Custodians as
they may designate for this purpose.

5.2 Payment of Benefits. The Board shall pay out of
the Trust, at the time or times and in the manner specified in
the Plan, the benefits provided for therein. The payment of
benefits shall be in accordance with the written Plan referred to

in Section 4.2.

5.3 Expenses. The Board shall use and apply the
assets of the Trust for the following purposes:

(a) To pay from the Trust Fund, or provide for
the payment of, all reasonable and necessary expenses of collec-
ting Employer contributions and administering the affairs of the
Trust, and all expenses which may be incurred in connection with
the maintenance and operation of the Plan and the Trust, includ-
ing, but not limited to:

(i) the fees and compensation of con-
sultants, actuaries, accountants, attorneys,
secretarial and clerical assistants, and
other persons employed by the Board or the
Administrator;

(ii) the costs of investing the Fund
(including, without limitation, the commis~
Sions, fees and other compensation of bro-
ker/dealers);

(iii) the fees and expenses of the Ad-
ministrator, and any Investment Manager or
Custodian as may be appointed by the Board;

(iv) premium or other payments under
insurance contracts or policies purchased by
the Board for the Fund;

(v) any taxes;

14

FUND0002290


(vi) the expense of maintaining bank
accounts and safety deposit boxes; and

(vii) the reimbursement of all reasonable and
necessary expenses of the. Trustees incurred in
connection with the operation of the Trust and
the Plan and ‘their performance as ‘Trustees.

nO (by To pay or provide’ ‘for the payment. Of suib-
scriptions, charges, deposits or other: payments under benefits
contracts; and to pay or provide for the payment of premiums on
the policy or policies of insurance, if; when and to the extent
such premiums shall become due. |

(c) The Board may engage such person or persons
as they may deem necessary or desirable as the Administrator to
conduct the day to day operations’ of the Plan and the Fund and
may delegate such of its administrative duties to such persons,
agents, or organizations as. the Board may deem advisable. oe ,

(ad) The Trustees shall not receive any compensa-
tion from the Trust for the performance of their duties as Trus-
tees, but shall be reimbursed ‘from the Trust Fund for all reason-
able and necessary expenses which they incur din the performance
of their duties: as ‘Trustees: hereunder.

5. 40 Insurance contracts.

(a) The Board may enter into such insurance
contracts. and policies, including group annuity contracts, make
such premium or other payments thereon, make such elections
thereunder, agree to any alteration, modification or amendment
thereof, and take such actions with respect thereto as the Board
shall, in its sole discretion, determine.. With respect to any
such insurance contract, the Board is, in its discretion, autho-
rized to assume all the rights, privileges and benefits thereun-
der and ownership thereof and to take all actions required of or
permitted thereunder, and the insurance carrier or organization
with which such contracts are in effect shall. not be required to
inquire into the authority of the’ Board.

(eb) In no event shall any insurance company
issuing any contract or contracts to the Board under this Agree-
ment be considered a party or parties to: this Agreement nor to
any modification or amendment thereto or any agreement supplemen-
tal thereto. Nothing in this Agreement nor in any modification,
amendment or supplement thereto shall in any: way be construed to
enlarge,: change, vary or in any way affect the obligations of an
insurance company except as expressly provided: in a contract

issued by it.

(c) Any insurance company may deal with the
Board in accordance with the terms and conditions of the contract

15

FUND0002291


a between the insurance company and the Board and in such manner as
the Board and the insurance company shall therein agree, without
the consent of any other person or persons interested in this

Trust.

5.5 General Powers of Trustees. Notwithstanding any

limitations imposed generally by any present or future state
statute or rule of law concerning investments by Trustees, the
Board is hereby empowered in its sole and absolute discretion
(and in addition to, and not by way of limitation of, such other
powers as are set forth herein or otherwise conferred by law) to:

(a) Purchase, sell (for cash or on
credit), receive, subscribe for, invest and
reinvest in any Securities or other property
(free from any limitations imposed by state
law on investments of trust funds), and to
retain such Securities or other property in
the Trust Fund, or exchange any such Securi-
ties or property for other property, or
grant options to acquire such Securities or
property; and the Board may determine the
prices and terms of all such sales, exchang-
es and options and may execute contracts,
conveyances and other instruments containing
covenants and warranties binding upon the
Fund and containing provisions excluding the
personal liability of the Trustees;

(b) Use the facilities of the Deposi-
tory Trust Company or the Federal Reserve
Book-Entry System, subject to such rules,
regulations and orders as may be adopted by
the Securities and Exchange Commission
thereunder; including, without limitation,
the right to (1) hold, receive, exchange,
release, deliver and otherwise deal with the
Securities and other property of the Trust
Fund (including stock dividends, rights and
other items of like nature), and to receive
and remit all income and other payments
thereon and take all steps necessary and
proper in connection with the collection
thereof; (2) register such Securities in the
name of any nominee or nominees used by the
Depository Trust Company or the Federal Re-
serve Book-Entry System; and (3) pay for
Securities purchased and sold through the
clearing medium employed by the Depository
Trust Company or the Federal Reserve Book~
Entry System for transactions of partici-
pants acting through it; and (4) register
any Securities or other property held in the

L6

FUND0002292



Trust Fund in the name of a nominee or. nomi-~
nees (with or without. the. addition of words
indicating that such Securities or other
property are held ina fiduciary capacity)
provided, however, that said nominee be a
‘bank or trust COMPANY a0 ep

: “(e)- ‘Cause any: Securities: or. ‘other a

property” at-any time held by: the Trust Fund .
_to be registered in its.own name. as trust-
ees, or in the name of a trustee or nominee
(with or without the disclosure of any fidu-
ciary relationship), and to holdin bearer
form any Securities. or. other property at any
time held in: the Trust: Fund: SO that: they =
will. pass by: delivery; oe ;

(a) (2). ‘Sell for. cash | or on. credit,
grant. options, convert, exchange ‘for other » .
Securities. or. ‘property, redeem, transfer and
dispose. of any: Securities or: other property
in the: Trust: Fund, by’ private’ agreement: or:
public auction,: for cash, Securities:or =
other property. and/or. credit; and. (2)° make:
delivery of Securities: or. other’ property~:

that have been sold. for. the»Trust’ Fund: upon.
receipt of. ‘payment. therefor; all: payments .
for such Securities or. property.to bé made.
in cash, by a certified check, a treasurer’s
or cashier’ s check: of.a bank, by effective
bank wire transfer. through - the Federal: Re-:.
serve. Wire: System: or; Lf: ‘appropriate, out ..
side. of. the Federal Reserve: Wire: System and
for credit: to the ‘Trust. Fund? whe le be

‘(e). ‘Release ‘and deliver ' ‘Trust. Fund
Securities to. the issuer.:thereof. (or its .
agent) when such: Securities are: called, re-.
deemed, retired. or. otherwise: become’ payable;
provided,- however, that,. vin-any case, the.
cash or other: consideration for such: release
and delivery: is. in. the: Trust Fund: or-is- to:
be delivered to the. Board. simultaneously ~
with the: delivery. of such Securities;

(f) Exercise ‘voting: rights; either. in -
person by. limited or: general: power of attor- —
ney, or by proxy, with. respect. to’all” seéecu- =
rities or. other property, and generally to
exercise: with respect to Trust Fund: assets:
all rights, powers; and: privileges as may be:
lawfully exercised by: any. person. owning sim-
ilar property in its own right, unless the

17

FUND0002293


responsibility for exercising such rights,
powers, or privileges has been delegated by
the Board to an Investment Manager;

(g) (1) Exercise any conversion privi-
lege and/or subscription right available in
connection with any Securities or other
property at any time held in the Trust Fund,
and to make any payments in connection with
such exercise; (2) join in, dissent from or
eppose the reorganization, consolidation,
merger, recapitalization, liquidation, sale,
mortgage, pledge or lease of corporate prop-
erty with respect to any corporations in
which the Trust Fund may be interested (in-
cluding the exercise of options, the making
of agreements or subscriptions and the pay-
ment of expenses, assessments or subscrip-
tions, which may be necessary or advisable.
in connection therewith), and to hold and
retain any Securities or other property
which it may so acquire; (3) deposit any
Securities or property with any protective,
reorganization or similar committee, and to
pay or agree to pay part of the expenses and
compensation of any such committee and any
assessments levied with respect to such Se~
curities or property so deposited; and (4)
exercise all other ancillary rights or du-
ties necessary to implement any of the pow~
ers contained herein;

(h) (1) Pool all or a portion of the
Trust Fund in one or more Collective Trusts
and to transfer and deposit, at any time and
from time to time, all or a portion of the
assets of the Trust Fund to any Collective
Trust, and (2) withdraw any portion of the
Trust Fund so transferred, and to execute
such documents and other instruments as,
from time to time, may be necessary to in-
plement the foregoing;

(i) Invest all or part of the Trust
Fund in deposits which bear a reasonable
interest rate in any bank, trust company or
similar financial institution supervised by
the United States or any State (including
deposits of a Custodian, to the extent per-
mitted by ERISA);

(3) (1) Compromise, compound, submit
to arbitration or settle any debt or obliga-

18

FUND0002294



tion: owing to or fromthe Trust Fund; (2) ©

enforce or: abstain. “from enforcing any. right,

claim, debt or. obligation; - (3) ‘reduce or
increase the rate of interest on extension,
or otherwise. modify,” ‘foreclose. ‘upon. default,
or enforce. any such obligation; and (4) sue.
or defend suits or legal: proceedings: ‘to: pro~
tect or. enforce’ any interest in the. Trust .
Fund and to represent the Trust ‘Fund ‘in:
suits or. legal. proceedings. ‘in’ connection
with any. matter in any: court or before any”
administrative agency,” ‘body: or> -tribunal,
provided such’ action is: consistent “with:
ERISA; : ve oe

“(ky “Apply: ‘for;: ‘pukchasay’. receive,” res

tain, administer,. surrender,” transfer or.

assign. any. insurance: policy” or contract, and .
pay the: -premiun and. exercise the. rights, 9.
privileges, : options’ and: benefits ‘sontained’

in any such: Spntract hs aed ee

()y> Organize. ‘corporations;. “he
ships, and/or’ joint-ventures under the: laws’

of any jurisdiction: to: acquire and® hold ~
title to-any Securities or other: property”

held: in connection with’ the Trust ‘Fund?

(mn) Take ‘any. and. ‘all actions,’ ‘inelud-"
ing the filing of requests for determina- ©" ~
tions, rulings and other forms’ of adminis- ~~

trative. guidance with the United. States
Department of Labor - (ineluding™ requests’ for
exemptive or other administrative Yelief °°

from:the provisions of: Section 406: ‘of ERISA”
and. Section. 4975 of | the® Code, or. ‘other: pro-”
visions. ‘of. ERISA: or : the Code); the: Internal *

Revenue Service,.or the Pension’ Benefit
| Guaranty. Corporation,: and. the: commencement
of and participation: ain. lawsuits;' all’ as%

Board determines to’ be: necessary, appropri

ate or desirable. to carry out: any of: the
foregoing. powers or otherwise in the best
interests.of: the Plan” or the ‘Trust ‘Fund;

(ny. (1). Lease’ or: ~ purchase such | prem =
ises;. materials, supplies” ‘and ‘equipment, : Cand: =
employ: and. retain. such. administrative,> sec-
retarial,- clerical, and: other” assistance: or oe
employees as the Board may deem: necessary © ‘or:

proper, and to pay their reasonable expenses
and compensation: and’ all other’ expenses at-
tributable to the operation ofthe Plan out

19 |

FUND0002295
 “L



of the Trust Fund; (2) retain attorneys,
investment advisers, accountants, actuaries,
appraisers, contractors, engineers, archi-
tects, consultants, property managers, in-

surance brokers and other persons or enti-~

ties in connection with the acquisition,
operation, management, sale or other dispo-
sition of any property for or by the Trust
Fund, and pay, as expenses of the Trust
Fund, any of their necessary and reasonable
fees; and (3) retain one or more Custodians
or other banks, trust companies or similar
depositories to act as a trustee and/or cus~
todian of Trust Fund securities and proper-
ty, and to define the scope and
responsibilities of each such trustee or
custodian;

{Oo} Make, execute and deliver any and
all conveyances, waivers, releases or other
instruments in writing necessary or desir-
able for the accomplishment of any of the
foregoing powers;

(p) Appoint ancillary or subordinate
trustees or custodians to hold title to or
other indicia of ownership of Foreign Secu-
rities or other property of the Trust Fund
in those. jurisdictions (domestic or foreign)
in which the Board is not authorized to do
business and to define the scope of the
responsibilities of each such ancillary or
subordinate trustee or custodian; provided,
however, that such ancillary or subordinate
trustees or custodians shall comply with all
requirements of Section 404(b) of ERISA, and
the regulations promulgated pursuant there-
to, in the event that assets of the Trust
Fund are invested or reinvested in Foreign
Securities;

(q) Establish and implement a funding
policy for the Plan and create, accumulate
and maintain as part of the Trust Fund such
reserves as the Board determines to be
prudent or desirable in connection with the
sound and efficient administration of the
Plan and the Trust Fund to carry out such
funding policy (including, without limita-
tion, reserves for existing and potential
obligations and liabilities of the Trust
Fund and administrative expenses) ;

20

FUND0002296



(x) Delegate to other persons the du-
ties involved: in the ‘operation and adminis-
tration of .the Plan under the direction of.
the Board (other than Trustee duties) to the
extent ‘consistent with ERISA; ee

“(s). “Enter. into. Agreements. ‘aziong’ ‘them="
selves allocating their responsibilities;
obligations and duties with respect to the”
administration of the Plan and the manage-
ment and control.of the Trust Fund assets}:
provided, - however, that the remaining Trust-
ees comprising the Board shall not be liable
for any loss resulting. to the Trust Fund ~
resulting from the acts or omissions of |

those Trustees accepting the allocation of
such specified fiduciary responsibilities”
(excert é as may ‘ otherwise | be required by

“(ty Enter: into’ agreements | with other ©
plans: and trusts providing for the’ reciproc-
ity of pension credits and portability of:
pension accruals as between this Plan and
such other plans: and’ trusts; and, in the
case of any. merger or consolidation with,
transfer of assets and liabilities: to, any
other. pension. ‘plan or trust,: provisions —
shall. be made so that each’ Covered: Emp loyee
affected thereby | on the date thereof would:
(if the: Plan or Trust then. terminated) : re~
ceive a benefit’ immediately after the. merg~
er,. ‘consolidation, or transfer which is’
equal..to or greater: than the. benefit ‘that. he
would have been entitled to: receive immedi~'
ately prior to the merger, ‘consolidation’ or-
transfer. (if- the. Plan or Trust fad then ter~

minated);

(u) (1) Borrow monies from any person.
or persons on behalf of the Trust Fund, or
on behalf of any ‘corporation, partnership or
joint-venture in which the Trust: Fund: has*an
interest; (2) pledge. all. or a portion. of the
Trust Fund as security or collateral to any
person or persons in order-to obtain’ finan-
cial accommodations (including: agreements» to
issue letters of creditor other forms of —
eredit).from a‘bank, trust company, broker-
dealer or other financial institution (in-.
cluding the Custodian, to the extent: permit~
ted by ERISA) on behalf of the Trust Fund,
or on behalf of any corporation, partner-

21

FUND0002297



ship, or joint venture in which the Trust
Fund has an interest; and (3) for any sums
SO borrowed or accommodations or credit ob-
tained, issue one or more promissory notes
(or other instruments or documents), and/or |
pledge, hypothecate, assign or otherwise
transfer all or any part of the Trust Fund
assets as collateral and/or issue guaranties
in order to obtain such loan, credit or oth-
er form of credit; provided that any portion
of the Trust Fund assets so pledged, hypo-
thecated, assigned or otherwise transferred
as security or collateral shall be regis-
tered in the name of the Board or the Trust
Fund, and provided, further, that the exer-
Cise of any of the powers contained in this
subsection by the Board, with respect to all
or a portion of the assets of an Investment
Manager Account shall not in any manner be
construed as an acceptance by the Board of
investment management and supervisory powers
pertaining to such assets, and the Board
shall not be liable for any acts or omis-
sions of such Investment Manager in connec-
tion with such assets, nor be under any ob-
ligation to invest or otherwise manage the
assets of such Investment Manager Account;

| (v) (1) Loan any Trust Fund Securities
to banks, trust companies, or nationally-
recognized brokers or dealers; (2) secure
the same in any manner; (3) receive compen-
sation therefor out of any amounts paid by
or charged to the account of the borrower;
and (4) during the term of any such loan,
permit the loaned Securities to be trans-
ferred into the name of and voted by the
borrower or others; provided, however, that
such loans are fully consistent with ERISA
and the Code and that cash or other collat-
eral, having a fair market value (as of the
close of business on the business day imme-
diately preceding the date of such loan)
equal to at least one hundred two (102%)
percent of the then fair market value of the
Securities loaned, is pledged to the Trust
Fund by the borrower, and continues to be
maintained in such manner until such loan is
repaid;

(w) Collect contributions on behalf of |
any other pension or welfare plan designated
by the Trustees, which is jointly maintained

22

FUND0002298



by the. Union and one or more employers (or .
association of. employers) in the newspaper .
delivery industry and -in which participants:
of the Plan: participate, in. an, amount set
forth: in the. applicable collective...
bargaining . (or. similar). agreement. between oo
such employers | (or: association). ‘and.the >. =:
Union, and.to. transmit. such. contributions. to.
such. plan (and to. receive: reimbursement of
the cost of, providing. such collection:
services); provided,: however, that: all
monies received. on° behalf. of such other plan
shall. be segregated in a. ‘separate: account: .
maintained by the, Trustees, which shall not |
be. deemed. plan. assets” of the Fund (within ..
the. meaning. of: Section 403, of: ERISA, and 29°

Cc. F.R. & 2550. 403) 7°. ea a, a

(x). “(1) Retain, ‘manage, ‘administer,
operate, lease. for: any: length. of:.time;,. de~
velop,.. improve, -repair;: alter, ‘demolish,;.
mortgage, pledge, grant. options with: respect
to, or otherwise: deal. with. any. real property .
or interest therein. at any time held: ‘by the.
Trust: Fund; (2). modify, extend, renew: or.
otherwise. adjust. any: mortgage. ‘Or. lease,:. ine.
cluding.. the. waiver..of: rentals? (3). purchase,
exchange or otherwise acquire and. to sell,
exchange or. otherwise dispose:of, any such
property or. interest in-real, property at.:
public. or. private sale, at’ such. prices,. at.
such. tine, OF. ‘ines UPON . such, terms, . and. for.

able; (4) “borrow ‘money , ‘and. for. the purpose
of securing. the repayment. thereof; tos:
pledge,. mortgage, grant <a security. interest.
in or otherwise. encumber . any: ‘property or”
interest. in ‘real: property: of .the Trust: ‘Fund;
(5) purchase, take, and. hold: any. property Or.
interest. in. real. property ‘subject: ‘to: mort< |
gages. or. other liens or encumbrances: which -
may at-.any-. time be. encumbrances; upon’ any.
property, irrespective of by whom:the. same. |
were made; (6). foreclose, to reduce the: rate
of. interest. ‘on, and. to. consent to: the. exten=
sion of.or make. any” other modification: Of
loans,. whether. or not secured. by mortgages _
on any. real. or. personal. property, | or inter- |
est in real property, or to accept a deed-in .
lieu of foreclosure; (7) join a voluntary
partition. of any. property. or interest in.

real. property? (8) demolish or cause to-be |
demolished any structures on any. real prop-

FUND0002299


erty if such action is necessary or desir-
able; (9) abandon any property or interest
in real property which is determined to be
worthless; (10) make loans of any type (in-
cluding, without limitation,: variable, par-
ticipating, convertible or indexed loans),
whether secured or unsecured, in. connection
with any real or personal property of the
Trust Fund; (11) enter into joint ventures
or otherwise own or participate in entities
that own or acquire real or tangible person-
al property, interests in real property (in-
cluding associations, corporations, general
or limited partnerships, or trusts), and to
acquire stock, ownership interests, or secu-
rities in such entities, including by means
of a tender offer; (12) hold. real property
either in the name of the Trust Fund or in a
separate nominee trust without disclosing
the ownership of the Trust Fund; (13) oper-
ate through one or more corporations or oth-
er entities, wholly or partially owned by
the Trust Fund, whether or not exempt from
Federal income taxation or other taxes; (14)
effect any and all of the foregoing on such
terms and conditions, without regard to whe-
ther or not the periods thereof extend be-
yond the statutory period for leases made by
fiduciaries; and (15) keep and maintain any
property in good state of repair and upkeep,
to obtain insurance for any property or in-
terest in real property, and:to pay the tax-
es, upkeep, repairs, carrying charges, main-
tenance and premiums of insurance with re-
spect to any property or interest in real

property; and

(y) Generally, perform all acts (whe-
ther or not expressly authorized herein)
which the Trustees may deem necessary and
prudent for the protection of the assets of

the Trust Fund.

5.6 Committees.

(a) The Board may delegate one or more of its
fiduciary responsibilities to one or more Committees, including
but not limited to responsibilities related to the acceptance and

processing of benefit applications and delinquent employer
contributions. |

a4

FUND0002300


(b) Each such Committee shall be comprised of
two or more Trustees. (of which there: shall be. an equal number of
Employer Trustees and ‘Union: Trustees). SeEerE RD a

(e). “Except as. otherwise , provided: by. ERISA, to
the extent that. such responsibilities. are: so delegated,: the
remaining Trustees comprising: the Board. shall. not be liable for
any loss resulting ‘to the: Trust. Fund: arising. from: or “relating to
the acts or omissions of the Committee. aa a re

5. 7 standard. of: care. In. exercising any “and all
powers under this. Agreement; : ‘the. ‘Board: shall discharge its duties
hereunder with the care, skill,: prudence: and. diligence. under the
circumstances then prevailing. that a>» prudent: person acting ina
like capacity and ‘familiar: with such: matters would use in the
conduct of an ‘enterprise. of. alike: character. and. with like aims,
and shall diversify all. Trust: Fund Securities: and. other. property
to avoid the risks of: large’ ‘losses . (unless, - under the’ circum-
stances, it is. clearly. prudent. not to do: 50) 5 consistent with the .
requirements of ERISA’ and: ‘the’ Code. weyhte Te no

5. B Reliance on > Written. Instruments and_ Advice of
“Professionals. otags SS 2 Wipes .

(ayo "Bach. of. ‘the Trustees. sha L be ‘fully. protect~-
ed in acting upon. any” “instrument, certificate, - or: paper believed
by them to be genuine: vand: to. be: signed: or. presented by a duly
authorized person: or: persons | (including, without: limitation,
those written instruments presented: by’ a Contributing Employer or
by its duly authorized: officers’ or: other: agents) ,” and: shall be
under no duty to make any” investigation: Ore inguiry as to any
statement contained in any.’such. writing, . but. may. accept: the same
as conclusive’ evidence’ of. ‘the truth and: accuracy” of. the: state-

ments therein contained.

(b) Each of “the Trustees shall ‘be. entitled to
rely conclusively upon, and shall be fully protected in any
action taken by: them: in good. faith. in. relying’ upon, any opinions
or reports furnished: to then: by any” actuaries;- accountants,
attorneys, consultants: or: specialists appointed- or designated by
them in connection with the administration ‘of the: ‘Plan. or the

Fund.

5.9 Indemnification. Except as may otherwise be
provided by ERISA, the Code, or other applicable law:

pretest | Poe (a) “The. Trustees shall ‘not: ‘be personally answer- _
able for any liabilities or. debts of: the Trust. Fund -incurred. by. 7
them as Trustees, but said debts and liabilities. shall be paid.
out of the Trust Fund and the Trust Fund is hereby charged. with |
first liens as security and indemnification against any liabili-
ties of any kind which the Trustees or any of them may incur

hereunder}

25

FUND0002301



(b) The Trustees shall not be personally liable
for any error of judgment or for any loss arising out of any act
or omission or for any acts or omissions of any other Trustee, or
of any agent or attorney elected or appointed by or acting for
the Trustees;

(c) The Trustees may from time to time consult
with legal counsel and shall be fully protected in acting upon
the advice of said counsel with respect to legal questions; and

(4d) The Fund shall protect, indemnify and hold
harmless, through the purchase of insurance or otherwise, each
Trustee, Committee member, and any person to whom a fiduciary
responsibility with respect to the Fund has been allocated or
delegated pursuant to this Agreement (including his estate), from
and against any and all liabilities, damages, taxes, penalties,
losses, expenses (including reasonable attorneys’ fees, court
costs, and other professional fees), costs and claims
(hereinafter collectively referred to as "Claims") incurred by
‘any such person as a result of any act, omission or conduct
committed in good faith by said person in connection with the
performance of his or her power, duties, responsibilities or
obligations under the Plan, the Trust, this Agreement, ERISA, the
Code or other applicable laws, except with respect to Claims
arising from such person’s own fraud, willful misconduct or gross
negligence, or except as may otherwise reimbursed by insurance.

5.10 Bonding. Any person required to be bonded under
the provisions of ERISA, including without limitation the Trust-
ees, Administrator, Investment Managers, Custodians (and any
other employees, agents or other representatives of the Trust
handling monies, Securities and negotiable paper on behalf of the
Trust or otherwise entrusted with any portion of the Trust Fund),
shall be bonded under a fidelity bond issued by a reputable
insurance carrier in the amount required by Section 412 of ERISA.
The Board shall, in its sole discretion, have the authority to
require the bonding of any other employee of the Trust and to
require bonds above the minimum amount. The cost of premiums for
such bonds shall be paid out of the Trust Fund.

5.11 Fiduciary Insurance. To the extent not pre~
cluded by ERISA, the Fund shall purchase and maintain a policy or
policies of fiduciary liability (or errors or omissions) insur-
ance for the Trust Fund, the Trustees, the Administrator and, if
the Board so decides, any other person to whom a fiduciary
responsibility with respect to the Fund has been allocated or
delegated to protect such persons against any and all Claims
arising out of a fiduciary’s breach of his or her fiduciary
responsibility to the Fund (the proceeds of which may be used to
satisfy the obligations set forth in Section 5.9).- |

26

FUND0002302



5.12 Deposit and Withdrawal of Funds.

ay ALT monies” received by the Trustees hereun-
der. shall be deposited by. them with such banks, trust companies
or other financial depositories or institutions insured by the |
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or the Securities Investor
Protection Corporation as the Board may designate as Custodians
or other trustee of all or. a portion of the assets of the ‘Trust.

-(b) ‘The requisite signature ‘authority required
for all checks, drafts, vouchers. or. other withdrawals of monies
from such account or accounts shall be in accordance with any
resolutions from time to time adopted by the Board; “and the Board
may delegate such authority. to. -any two- Trustees (one of whom must
be an Employer Trustee and the other. a Union Trustee), to the
Administrator, or to any other person as: ‘the Board, in its sole
discretion, shall determine. Lee ae

. _  §.13 Delegation of Power. Except as otherwise pron
vided by. ERISA, the Board may. delegate any of its ministerial
powers or duties hereunder to any. one Ox. more agents. or. “employees

and/or to one or more, Trustees. ee - oe

5. 14 Discretionary Authority. © Except. as “may | ‘other-
wise be provided herein, in any. Plan, or in any other document
between the Board and an ‘Employer, ‘the Plan ‘and Trust shall be
administered and operated ‘exclusively by the Board (or the
Administrator or any Committee duly authorized.by the Board)
which shall have’ complete. authority, in- ‘its: sole and absolute
discretion, © to construe the terms of the Plan or this Agreement
{and any related: documents and underlying. policies or regula-
tions) including, without ‘limitation, the’ ‘authority to. determine
the eligibility for, and amount of, benefits. ‘due under the Plan
to Covered’ Employees or their Beneficiaries. All such: decisions.
shall be final and. binding upon all parties affected thereby... |

By 15 Execution: of. Documents. The ‘Chairman ‘and Secre- .
tary of the Board of ‘Trustees shall be authorized | to. execute — os
documents on behalf of ‘the. Board of Trustees. — In addition, the |
Board may authorize by resolution any Union Trustee and any ~
Employer Trustee (or any. group composed equally. of Union and
Employer Trustees) , or the Administrator. of the Trust. ‘Fund, to
execute any notice or other’ instrument. in writing; and™ any’ ‘such
notice or instrument so signed shall have. the. same. force and |
effect as though signed by the ‘Board, — All persons, partnerships,
groups or associations may. accept. any. notice or instrument) signed
in accordance with this Section 5.15 as. duly, authorized and-
binding on the Board. The Board may, . -in its sole. discretion,
designate and authorize an employee or. employees of the Trust >
Fund to sign documents or checks upon such separate and specific
bank account or bank accounts as the Board may designate and

establish for such purpose.

27

FUND0002303


op ARTICLE 6

MEETINGS AND DECISIONS OF TRUSTEES

6.1 Officers.

(a) The term of Fund officers shall commence on
the date of their election and continues until their successors
are elected. At all times, the Chairman of the Fund shall be a
Union Trustee and the Secretary of the Fund shall be an Employer

Trustee.

(b) The Chairman shall preside over meetings of
the Board and, additionally, shall perform such other duties as
the Board may direct.

6.2 Calling of Meetings.

(a) There shall be at least four regular
quarterly meetings of the Trustees each year, the time of such
meetings to be determined by the Trustees.

(b) Special meetings may be called by the
Chairman or Secretary or by any four Trustees at any time by
giving at least five (5) days advance written notice of the time
and place of such meeting to all other Trustees.

(c) Meetings may be held at any time, with
proper advance notice (as prescribed by either paragraph (a) or
(b) above), by telephone conference.

(d) Meetings of the Trustees may also be held at
any time, without notice, in person or by telephone conference;
provided, that all the Trustees consent thereto.

(e) The place of all regular and special
meetings shall be determined by the Trustees.

6.3 Quorum. A quorum for the transaction of
business at any regular or special meeting of the Trustees shall
consist of two Union Trustees and two Employer Trustees.

6.4 Vote of Trustees.

(a) All action of the Board shall be taken by
unanimous vote of the Trustees, as hereinafter provided. When
voting, the Employer Trustees, as a unit, and the Union Trustees,
as a unit, shall each have one vote. All action by the Board
shall be by unanimous vote of the two units.

(b) The vote of the Union Trustees shall be cast
only in accordance with the concurring vote of a majority of all
the Union Trustees voting in person or by duly executed proxy.

28

FUND0002304

 \

‘s



‘The vote of the Employer Trustees shall be cast only in

accordance with the concurring vote of a majority of all the
Employer Trustees voting. in. person. or. by. duly executed PLOXY

| (c) The vote of any absent Employer Trustee or
Union Trustee (as the case may be) may be cast in accordance with
a written. proxy, delivered to any other. Employer Trustee or Union
Trustee (as.the case may” be) present: ‘at the. meeting: such proxies
to be.valid only at the: meeting. immediately. Succeeding its. ;
execution. Bo oy Led . be

(di) In the event that any matter presented for
decision.by the Board cannot be decided for lack of a unanimous
vote of the two units as herein above provided, or because of the
lack of a quorum at two consecutive meetings of the Board, or
because of a deadlock (ji.¢., no agreement on the disposition of a
proposed resolution, including a motion to table), the matter
shall then be resolved 1 by arbitration” (as, ‘Beowlaed by Section

6.6).

6. 5 Minutes of Meetings. The Trustees (or. ‘their duly
authorized designee) shall maintain minutes of all Board and :
Committee meetings, but such minutes need. not..be verbatin.

Copies. of. such: minutes shall. be. Sent. to all Trustees...

Be Arbitration.

_. .(a) Whenever the Board is unable to decide a
question during. a. meeting. of the. ‘Trustees for lack of a unanimous
vote (the lack of the necessary quorum: at.two successive meetings |
also being deemed to constitute such jnability) | ‘the Chairman, at
the request of any Trustee,. shall.submit the. question for
decision pursuant to. the Labor. Rules of. the. American Arbitration

Association (hereinafter, the "AAA"). If the Chairman is unable _

or refuses to submit the question to the AAA, any one (1) Trustee
may petition the United States District. ‘court. for, the Southern

= (b).. The failure of.any Trustee to. attend the
arbitration, hearing. as scheduled and. noticed. by the’ AAA shall not.
delay the arbitration, and the arbitrator is. authorized. to. pro-..
ceed to take evidence and issue his decision as though such
Trustee were present. cogs ae :

(c) In the event that such. arbitrator, having
been selected, shall resign or for whatever. reason shall fail or
refuse to act within a reasonable time after. his selection, the
AAA shall be requested to appoint another arbitrator?. provided,
however, that should the AAA fail to act within thirty (30). days: |
after the request, or should the Board be unable to agree on
another arbitrator within thirty (30) days after the AAA is
requested to act, an arbitrator shall be. “appointed | PY. the United

29

FUND0002305



States District Court for the Southern District of New York upon
the petition of any one (1) Trustee.

_ (d) The arbitrator, after hearings of which all
interested parties as stated in the submission shall have due
notice and opportunity to be heard, shall promptly announce his
award in writing to all parties in interest and such award shall
be final and binding on alli parties concerned, as though it was
embodied in a resolution duly adopted by unanimous vote of the

Trustees.

(e) All hearings of the arbitrator shall take
place in the City of New York unless otherwise specifically
agreed to by both parties.

(f) All reasonable expenses of the arbitration
(including, without limitation, the fees of the AAA, attorneys
and the arbitrator) shall be paid from the Trust Fund.

30

FUND0002306


we

ARTICLE 7.

ALLOCATION OF RESPONSIBILITIES —

"9.2 The Administrator. Where the Administrator is a
Trust Fund, subject to the terms of this Agreement, the Plan, any
written agreement between the Board and the Administrator, and _
any policies, procedurés and other rules that may from time to —
time be established by the Board. Such responsibilities shall
include, without limitation, the following:

(a) Functions assigned to the Administrator ~
under the terms of this Agreement, the
- Plan, or any written agreement between
the Board and the Administrator;

(by) Punctions assigned to the Administrator —
by the Board;

(c) Determinations as to benefit eligibili-
ty and amount, and the certification
thereof to the Board;

(ad) Hiring of administrative, clerical,
professional and similar persons to
provide necessary services to the Trust
Fund and the Plan;

(e) Payment of any fees, taxes, charges or
other costs incidental to the operation
and management of the Trust Fund and
the Plan;

(f) Preparation and filing of all govern-
ment and other reports required to be
filed by the Plan and the Trust under
ERISA or the Code;

(g) Maintenance of all records of the Trust
Fund and the Plan, other than those
required to be maintained by other per-~
sons duly designated by the Board; and

(h) Attending Meetings of the Board and making
reports to the Board.

7.2 The Board. The Board shall have the authority
and responsibility for the overall operation of the Plan and
Trust Fund. Such responsibilities shall include, without limita-

tion, the following:

31

FUND0002307



(1)

(2)

(3)

(4)

(5)

(6)

(7)

(8)

(9)

(10)

Design of the Trust, including the
right to amend, modify or terminate
this Agreement at any time;

Design of the Plan, including the right
to amend, modify or terminate such Plan
at any time;

Qualification under applicable law of
the Plan and the Trust;

Designation of fiduciaries of the Trust
Fund and Plan (including, without limi-
tation, Investment Managers, Custodi-
ans, and members of Committees);

Exercise of those fiduciary functions
provided for in the Plan, or this
Agreement, or those necessary for the
prudent operation or administration of
the Plan (except such functions as are
delegated to a Committee, the Adminis-
trator, an Investment Manager or Custo-
dian, or to other fiduciaries of the
Trust or the Plan);

Approve the budget of the Fund Office,
including the salaries and fringe
benefits of all Fund employees,
including the Administrator;

Coordinate with the Fund’s auditors,
including the establishment and carry-
ing out of a reporting procedure
between the auditors and the Board;

Review, approve and pay all reasonable
and necessary expenses for the es~
tablishment, operation and administra~
tion of the Trust and the Plan (includ-
ing, without limitation, the payment of
the clerical administrative, profes-
sional, and other expenses of the type
set forth in Sections 5.3 and 5.5{n)j);

Establish procedures with respect to
all matters related to the collection
of delinquent contributions, unless
such function is delegated to a
separate delinquency committee;

Formulate and implement general
policies respecting investments of the

32

FUND0002308


(ay)

(12)

Trust Fund, including the promulgation
of investment. directions, guidelines or

“objectives (as authorized by Section
8.8);

Coordinate with the Custodian a
reporting procedure. between the
Custodian and the Board; |

select such’ custodians, Investment
Managers and such other consultants to
ensure that the cash, Securities, and

other property of the Fund are invested

— (13)

prudently. and’ suitably diversified, as
well as to carry out the investment

program;

‘Monitor: and evaluate: (using one or more
professional. investment evaluation

firms, if necéssary) the performance of
-— guch- Custodians, Investment Managers,
jane: other’ investment” ‘professionals;

“ay

— (15)

(46)
staff, ‘actuaries or other service
“providers to calculate) pension benefit

(a7)

(18)

Where: necessary, ‘terminate the services

any such Custodian, Investment Manager,
other investment professional;

Determine ‘the. eligibility of Covered

Employees * and Beneficiaries for retire-

ment benefits’ and the form of payment
of such benefits; a

calculate: (or: sithorize the Trust's

amounts;

Review and approve ° (or, deny) pension
payments to Covered Employees and Bene-

“ficlaries? and. mace

‘Generally, exercise ‘of those functions

and responsibilities which the Board

‘deems necessary. and appropriate for the

operation and administration of the
Plan or Trust, and the protection of

Trust Assets.

33

of
or

FUND0002309


ARTICLE 8

INVESTMENT MANAGERS

8.1 Appointment of Investment Managers.

(a) The Board, in its sole discretion, may
appoint one or more Investment Managers to manage and invest (in-
cluding the power to acquire and dispose of) all or a portion of
the assets of the Trust Fund.

(b) In the event that more than one Investment
Manager is appointed, the Board shall separately segregate, or
request the Custodian to segregate, each portion of the assets
constituting the account to be managed by each respective Invest-
ment Manager into a separate Investment Manager Account.

(c) The Board may also direct the investment of
any portion of the Trust Fund that is not subject to the manage-
ment and control of an Investment Manager. In directing the
investment of any portion of the Trust Fund, the Board shall have
exclusive power and authority to exercise the powers set forth in
Section 5.5 with respect to the Securities of other property so

invested.

8.2 Authorization.

(a) Any appointment of an Investment Manager
shall be authorized by a certificate of the Board and shall
become effective as of the date specified in such certificate.
The Investment Manager shall also identify to the Board the
person or persons authorized to give Instructions or directions
to the Board on behalf of the Investment Manager (including

specimen signatures).

(b) The duties and responsibilities of each
Investment Manager shall be expressed in writing in an agreement
to be entered into and executed on behalf of the Trust Fund
between the Board and such Investment Manager. Each Investment
Manager so employed shall be compensated in such manner as shall
be mutually agreed upon in such investment management agreement.

(c) The Board shall meet periodically with any
Investment Manager appointed hereby for the purpose of reviewing
the activities of each Investment Manager and monitoring its
investment performance, including whether the Investment Manager
has complied with any Investment Guidelines that may have been
promulgated by the Board (pursuant to Section 8.8).

8.3 Acknowledgments. The Board may require any
Investment Manager to furnish it with a certificate acknowledging

that it (a) is a fiduciary (within the meaning of Section 3(21)
of ERISA) with respect to its Investment Manager Account, and (b)

34

FUND0002310



% sth,
complies with the requirements of an investment manager (as set
forth in Section 3(38) of ERISA) .

8.4 Direction by Investment Manager.

(a) Bach Investment. Manager ‘shall have the
exclusive authority. to. manage; ‘acquire and dispose of any Securi-
ties or other property held in its: Investment Manager Account,
and; subject to its written agreement. with: the Trust Fund, may.
exercise with respect to such Securities.or other. property. all of
the powers set forth in Section 5.5, except subsections (3)
through (y) (unless the Board. has consented in advance to the
Investment . Manager exercising the: } Powers: set ‘forth. in. such te
subsections) | Be, sep to ye at bea ae

(pe) In. ‘the event. ‘that. ‘the “Board has” not. autho-_
rized the appointment of an Investment Manager in connection with
any Trust Fund Securities or other. Property ,: -the Board shall have
exclusive power. and: authority. to exercise the, powers set: forth in
Section: 5.5. of this: Agreement. with: respect: to- such Securities or.
other: Property held. ‘in the. Trust: Fund. Bos es ee

yet Bh 5. “Review: by Board. ” Notwithstanding anything to ‘the
contrary | ‘contained in this Agreement, neither the Board, nor the.
Administrator shall be responsible or liable for any acts or
omissions of any Investment Manager or be under any obligation to
invest or otherwise manage any assets contained in an Investment
Manager ' ‘Account, except: those assets: over: which it has
specifically: assumed: investment ‘management Guties.: »

8. 6 - Issuance of orders. | Subject to. the terms. of. the
investment: management agreenent: between. ‘the: Board and: any invest-
ment Manager:.. co Seri kote Py sie eg .

(a) Each Investment Manager shall have the power
and authority, to be exercised.in-its.sole discretion at any time
and’ fron. time: to time,. ‘to.issue’ orders. and Instructions: for: the
purchase or. sale of. Securities held in-its. ‘Investment Manager »
Account: directly to a broker-dealer; and coun Poem Teas fa

Syeadh “(b) “ALL transactions. by an. Investment. ‘Manager
shall be ‘made upon such terms and conditions, and from or through
such principals’ and agents,° as. the-Investment. anager shall
direct. (consistent. with the provisions of: ERISA) . He Pts

8. 7 “authority of. ‘Investnent. Manager. — ‘The authority

of any. Investment Manager, and the terms and conditions of. its
appointment and retention, shall be the. sole’ responsibility. of

the Board.

BB ‘Investment Guidelines. “The investment. powers. of
any Investment Manager may be subject: to any general or specific |
investment directions. or guidelines:that from time to time may

35 |

FUND0002311



» (but need not), be delivered to it by the Board in its sole
| discretion expressing the investment objectives, restrictions and
policies of the Board with respect to the Securities and other
property contained in an Investment Manager Account. Notwith-
standing the preceding sentence, the issuance of any specific
investment directions or guidelines by the Board shall not in any
manner be construed as an acceptance by the Board of any invest-
ment management or supervisory powers in connection with Trust
Fund assets managed by an Investment Manager (and the Board shall
not as a result of issuing such directions or guidelines, he
liable for any acts or omissions of an Investment Manager with
respect to such assets, or be under any obligation to invest or
otherwise manage such assets).

36

FUND0002312



ARTICLE 9 |.

_ PAYMENTS TO THE FUND |

9.1 . Rate of Contributions: ».In.order to, carry out the.
purpose hereof, the.Employers shall contribute to the Trust Fund .
the amount. required. by the Collective Bargaining Agreements at.
any time’ in* force. and. effect between: the Union. and an,Employer.. |
The rate and amount. of contribution shall, at all times be gov~...
erned by said Collective Bargaining Agreements, together with any
anendments, supplements, and-modifications,thereto. Nothing. in.
this Trust. Agreement. shall be deemed to change, alter or amend...

any of the terms or provisions of any such. agreement.

9.2 Effective Date of Contributions. All contribu-

tions shall be made effective as of the date specified in the
Collective Bargaining Agreement, and said contributions shall
continue to be paid as long as the Employer is so obligated
pursuant to said Collective Bargaining Agreement.

9.3 Mode of Payment. All contributions shall be
payable to the "Newspaper and Mail Deliverers’ -- Publishers’
Pension Fund," and shall be paid in the manner and form

prescribed by the Board.

9.4 Failure to Make Employer Contributions.

(a) The failure of any Employer to make Employer
contributions to the Trust Fund when due shall not relieve any
other Employer of its obligation to make Employer contributions.
The costs and expenses incurred in the collection of Employer
contributions shall be paid from the Fund. Notwithstanding the
preceding sentence, upon the failure of any Employer to make
Employer contributions to the Trust Fund required by the Plan,
the Trust Fund or a Collective Bargaining Agreement, within ten
(10) days after such payments are due and payable, the Board (or

its counsel or other duly authorized designee) may compel and
enforce payment in any manner it deems proper (including, without
limitation, the assessment of interest, at a rate calculated in
accordance with Section 9.5, from the date such payments first

became due and payable).

(b) In addition, the Board may require a delin-
quent Employer to pay a liquidated damage penalty equal to the
greater of interest on, or twenty percent of, the unpaid contri-
butions, plus all costs and expenses incurred by the Trustees
arising out of the collection of such delinquent Employer contri-
butions (including, without limitation, court costs and attor-

neys’ fees).

37 |

FUND0002313


9.5 Default in. Payment.

(a) In addition to any other enforcement reme-
dies that may exist under applicable law or any Collective
Bargaining Agreement or any other agreement requiring Employer
contributions to the Trust Fund, the Board is authorized and
empowered to initiate whatever action or proceedings may be
proper and necessary in its sole and absolute discretion for the
enforcement of an Employer’s contribution obligations to the
Trust Fund (including, but not limited to, proceedings at law or
in equity, arbitration and any other remedies that generally
would be available for the enforcement of said obligation to
contribute to the Trust Fund).

(b) A delinquent Employer shall be liable for
any expenses incurred in effectuating such payment (including,
but not limited to, arbitration expenses, counsel fees, court
costs, and interest at a rate of 18 percent per annum).

(ce) The obligations of the Employers hereunder
to make contributions to the Plan are several and not joint, so
that no Employer shall be liable or responsible for the default
of any other Employer hereunder.

9.6 Enforcement Actions. In addition to any other
remedies to which the Board or any duly authorized Committee may
be entitled hereunder, in the event that an Employer fails to
make required contributions to the Trust Fund, in accordance with
the terms and conditions of this Agreement, or any Collective

_ Bargaining Agreement or other agreement, and any rules or gquide-

lines promulgated by the Board pursuant hereto (hereinafter
collectively referred to as "unpaid contributions"), the Board
may bring an action on behalf of the Trust Fund pursuant to
Sections 502(g) 2) and 515 of ERISA to enforce the Emplioyer’s
obligation to contribute to the Trust Fund.

9.7 Payments Required by Court Award. In any judi-~
glial action under this Article 9 in which a judgment is awarded
by a court in favor of the Plan, the Trust Fund or the Board, the
Employer shall pay to such party, in accordance with the court’s
award, the following amounts:

(a) All unpaid contributions due and pay-
able; plus

(b) interest on such unpaid contributions
{computed in accordance with the method
set forth in Section 9.5); plus

(c) an amount equal to the greater of (i)
the interest on the unpaid contribu-

tions (calculated in accordance with
the method set forth in Section 9.5),

38

FUND0002314



or (ii) liquidated damages equal to 20
percent of the unpaid contributions;
plus | ne

(a) reasonable attorneys’ fees, court costs
_-. and other costs of the action; and

 (e) such other legal or equitable relief as
"the court deems appropriate. =

«968 No Waiver of Other Rights. Nothing in this
Article IX shall be construed as a waiver or limitation on the
right of the Union, the Plan, the Trust Fund, the Board, or any
Committee to enforce an Employer’s contribution obligation in any
other type of proceeding, and the provisions of this Article 9
shall be without prejudice to the rights of the Union to enforce.
the provisions of any agreement*to which it is a party. ;

_.., 99 Remittance Reports and Audits. The Employers
shall make contributions to the Fund, together with remittance
reports, in such form and manner as may be required by the Board.
The Board (or its authorized representatives) may at any time .
make an audit of the payroll, wage, and related business records
of any Employer with respect to the contributions and/or reports
which it is obligated to make to the Trust’ Fund... Each Employer
shall make available to the Board or the Administrator (or their
authorized representatives) all records deemed necessary by such
persons to determine the accuracy and completeness of such =~
contributions and reports. The Board may charge an Employer for

the cost of conducting an audit. 0

. “9,10 Arbitration of Withdrawal Liability Disputes. .
Any and all claims by third parties (including Employers) against
the Trust Fund concerning the assessment by the Trust Fund of
withdrawal liability under Sections 4201 through 4219 of ERISA ..
which cannot. be resolved between the claimant and the Trust Fund
shall not become the subject of litigation in the courts (either
State or Federal), but shall be subject to determination only by
arbitration before an arbitrator designated by the American

Arbitration Association (the "AAA") in accordance with its Multi-

Employer Pension Plan Arbitration Rules for Withdrawal Liability
Disputes. Any decision or award by such arbitrator shall be
final and binding upon the parties and shall be enforceable in
the United States district court. All such arbitrations shall be
held in the New York City office of the AAA and shall be governed
by New York State Law to the extent not superceded by ERISA. Any
actions to stay, to confirm, to set aside, or to modify an award
hereunder shall be brought in the State of New York, County of
New York. ‘The failure by a claimant to seek arbitration within
the time period prescribed by ERISA shall not affect the Trust
Fund‘s right to bring an action in State or Federal court under
Section 4221(b)(1) of ERISA for any amount demanded.

39°

FUND0002315



nore

ARTICLE 10

AMENDMENT: TERMINATION: AND TRANSFER OF ASSETS

40.1 Amendment. This Agreement and the Plan may be
amended, at any time and in any manner, by the Board, pursuant to
the unanimous vote of the Board, and the provisions of any such
amendment may be made applicable to the Trust Fund as constituted
at the time of such amendment and to any part of the Trust Fund
subsequently acquired, as well as to the Contributing Employers,
the Trustees, any Investment Manager, or Custodian, and all
others whosoever concerned; provided that the amendment:

(a) is not inconsistent with the purposes
for which the Fund was established;

(b) will not cause the Plan to be disquali-
fied under Section 401(a), or the Trust
to be disqualified from tax-exemption |
under Section 501(a) of the Code; and

(c) will not result in an unequal voting power
as between the Employer Trustees and Union

Trustees.

10.2 Limitation of Amendments. Notwithstanding
anything to the contrary contained in this Agreement, no amend-~
ment shall be made to this Trust Agreement or the Plan which
shall divert the Fund to any purpose other than that of providing
pension or related benefits or result in the return or diversion
of any part of the Fund to any of the Contributing Employers,
except as otherwise provided in Section 10.3.

10.3 Termination.

(a) This Agreement, and the Trust Fund estab-
lished hereunder, may be terminated:

(1) at any time, by the unanimous vote of
the Board and execution of an instrument in writing terminating

the Trust?

(2) bya joint resolution adopted by the
Union and the Association; or |

(3) automatically, in the event that the
obligation of all Employers to make contributions to the Trust
Fund shall terminate or there shall be no assets remaining in the

Trust Fund.

(b) In the event of the termination of the
Trust, the Board shall apply the remaining assets of the Trust to
pay or to provide for the payment of any and all obligations of

40

FUND0002316



ted

the said Trust and distribute or apply any remaining surplus in a

manner consistent, in. their opinion, with this Agreement, the
Plan, ERISA, the Code and any other applicable law; provided,
however, | that. no part of the corpus or income of the Trust Fund
shall. be used: for or. diverted to purposes: ‘other: than for the
exclusive, benefit — Of ° covéred ‘Employees, ‘the. ‘payment: of. fgets
administrative expenses. of the: Trust: Fund, or for. other. payments
in accordance with the provisions of this: Trust. Agreement. Under.
no circumstances: ‘shall any portion: of. the: ‘COrpus. or. income. of the
Trust Fund, ‘directly or: indirectly, revert: or. ‘accrue to the ar

benefit of any Employer or ‘the Unions

(c) Upon termination of the trust, ‘the Board
shall forthwith notify: the Union and. each. Employer, the Adminis-~-
trator, any insurance carriers; ‘Investment Managers, Custodians
and other service providers and necessary parties. The Board
shall continue to act as” Trustees of the: Trust Fund for the
purpose of effectuating the termination of: thé affairs of the
Trust. The ‘Board may ‘take any action with. regard to insurance
policies or group: contracts that may’ be. ‘required by the insurance
carrier and which the ‘Trustees, in. |, thedr. discretion, may deem

appropriate. —

41.

FUND0002317



ARTICLE 11

ACCOUNTS OF THE BOARD

11.1 Board to Maintain Trust Accounts. Unless other-
wise delegated to the Administrator, Custodian, or another entity

or person, the Board shall:

(a) Act-as a master recordkeeper for the Plan
and. Trust Fund, and its records shall constitute the
official records of the Plan and Trust Fund for all

purposes}

(bo) Maintain true, accurate and detailed books
of account and records of all their transactions,
which shall be open to the inspection of each Trustee
and a representative of each Contributing Employer at
all reasonable times, and which shall be examined at
least annually by a certified public accountant se-
lected by the Board; and .

(c) Maintain such information as will enable the
Board to determine the fair market value of each Secu-
rity, and the aggregate fair market value of all other
assets of the Trust. |

11.2 Valuation. For all purposes of this Agreement
(including, without limitation, the valuation of the Plan or an
Investment Manager Account, and any accounts as hereinabove
provided), all. Securities and other property on any business day

shall be valued at fair market value, computed in accordance with

such commercially acceptable valuation method or methods deter-
mined by the Board, with prudence and in good faith, to reflect
their current fair market value.

42

FUND0002318



ARTICLE 12°

MISCELLANEOUS

“12.1 Situs...The Fund. shall. have. and: maintain a
principal office | “in the New York: city metropolitan: area, and the
Board shall be deemed to be located at that address. pgs

12.2. Choice of*Law. This: Agreement andthe Trust
Fund created hereby shall be*construed, regulated,” enforced and
administered in’ accordance with the. internal laws.of the State of
New York applicable to contracts made and to be performed within
New York (without regard to any conflict of laws provisions), to
the extent that such laws are not: preempted by the provisions of
ERISA (oF. any other: applicable laws of ‘the | United States).

a 12. 3 “Counterparts. ‘This. ‘Agreement. may: be ‘executed in
any number of counterparts; ‘each: of which shall be deemed to be
an. original, ‘but all of. which shall. be considered. the same
instrument. — The signature of any party on any counterpart of
this Agreement _ shall be sufficient evidence of his execution

thereof.

“12.4 “pitles:. Plurals: ‘and. Gender. gitles; headings,
and subheadings for. for sections and. paragraphs ‘are ‘inserted for the
convenience of reference only, and this Agreement shall not be
construed: by reference | to them. - Wherever. required by. context,
the singular. ‘of any word: used in this Agreement shall: ‘include..the
| plural and the plural may. be’ read in the singular. -Words’ used.in-

the: masculine: shall be read’ and construed in the: feminine where | |

they * would’ SO apply.

42. 5. ‘Service. of. Process. “the: Board is. hereby - es |
designated as agent for service of legal process on: the: Trust or

the Plan.

12.6 Validity of Trustees’ Accounts and Instruments.
No person, partnership, corporation or association dealing with
the Board shall be obliged to see to the application of any funds
or property of the Trust, to see that the terms of this Agreement
and Declaration of Trust have been complied with, or be obliged
to inquire into the necessity or expediency of any act of the
Board. Every certificate or other instrument executed by the
Chairman of the Trustees shall be conclusive in favor of any
person, partnership, corporation or association relying thereon

that:

(a) at the time of the delivery of said in-
strument the Trust was in full force
and effect;

43

FUND0002319
 *~
ws



(b) said instrument was effected in accord-
ance with the terms and conditions of
this Agreement; and

(c) the Chairman was duly authorized and
empowered to execute such instrument.

s

12.7 Definitions. All words and phrases defined in
the Plan shall have the same meaning in this Agreement, except as
otherwise expressly provided herein.

12.8 Notices. Unless otherwise specified herein, all
notices, instructions and advice with respect to Securities
transactions, or any other matters contemplated by this Agree-
ment, shall be deemed duly given when either delivered in writing
to the addresses below or when deposited by first-class mail

addressed as follows:
(a) To the Board:

Board of Trustees

Newspaper and Mail Deliverers’ --
Publishers’ Pension Fund

47-18 27th Street

Long Island City, New York 11101

(b) To the Fund Administrator:

Mr. Murray Schwartz

Newspaper and Mail Deliverers’ --
Publishers’ Pension Fund

47-18 27th Street

Long Island City, New York 11101

(c) To the Union:

Newspaper & Mail Deliverers’
Union of New York and Vicinity

41-18 27th Street

Long Island City, NY 11101-3871

(d) To the Association:

Publishers’ Association of
New York City
c/o The New York Times
229 West 43rd Street
New York, New York 10036

or to such other addresses as any of the foregoing parties, or
individual Trustees, shall subsequently instruct. Any notice or
other communication shall be deemed to have been given to, or
received by, the appropriate party as of the date on which it is

44

FUND0002320


uhé Board) or any person claiming by or through them (by reason

of having been named a Beneficiary or otherwise), shall have any

right, title or interest in any of the income or property of any
character received or held by or for the account of the Fund or
any Plan. No such person shall have any right to any benefit
provided by’the Plan, nor shall any such.person be entitled to
any payment (or other interest) from the assets of the Fund
unless and until the Board determines that he fulfills all the
requirements necessary to receive a benefit in accordance with
the specific provisions of the Plane 88 8 8.0 0B

12.16 Trust Grants No Interest to Employees. Neither
the creation of this Fund nor anything contained in this Agree-
ment shall be. construed as giving any Covered Employee (or. :
Beneficiary) entitled to benefits hereunder or under the Plan any
right to be continued in the employ of any Contributing Employer
‘or any equity or other interest in. the assets. of the Fund, except
as set forth in the Plan. a

12.17 Duration of A reement. . This Agreement shall
continue in effect without limit as to time; subject, however, to
the provisions of this Agreement relating to amendment, modifica-
tion and termination thereof set forth in. Article 10.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned do hereby cause
this instrument to be executed as. of the day and year first above

written by their proper officers thereunto duly authorized on the
ist day of September, 1993. ee ;

THE PUBLISHERS’ ASSOCIATION NEWSPAPER AND MAIL DELIVERERS’
OF NEW YORK CITY UNION OF NEW YORK AND VICINITY

L Ree. - By:

By: es,
Christdpher”’Biegner Frank Sparacino

WE HEREBY AGREE to act as Trusteés in accordance with
the terms and conditions of this: Agreement and Declaration of
Trust. By our signatures below, we hereby signify and
acknowledge that we have read the foregoing instrument, fully
understand the contents thereof and agree to comply with all of
its terms and provisions. ee ee ee

EMPLOYER TRUSTEES: UNION TRUSTEES: »
AL Kalish oe Frank Sparacino
“ Robert Nusspickle | - «Patrick Lagan.

Joseph Cotter

46

FUND0002321

 t

us



43
the Board) er any person claiming by or through them (by reason
afvmaving heen named a Beneficiary or otherwise), shall have any

“right, title or interest in any of the income or property of any

character received or held by or for the account of the Fund or
any Plan. No such person shall have any right to any benefit
provided by the Plan, nor shall any such person be entitled to
any payment (or other interest) from the assets of the Fund
unless and until the Board determines that he fulfills all the
requirements necessary to receive a benefit in accordance with
the specific provisions of the Plan.

12.16 Trust Grants No Interest to Employees. Neither
the creation of this Fund nor anything contained in this Agree-
ment shall be construed as giving any Covered Employee (or

Beneficiary) entitled to benefits hereunder or under the Plan any.

right to be continued in the employ of any Contributing Employer
or any equity or other interest in the assets of the Fund, except
as set forth in the Plan.

12.17 Duration of Agreement. This Agreement shall.
continue in effect without limit as to time; subject, however, to
the provisions of this Agreement relating to amendment, modifica~
tion and termination thereof set forth in Article 10.

* * *% *

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned do hereby cause
this instrument to be executed as of the day and year first above
written by their proper officers thereunto duly authorized on the
ist day of September, 1993.

THE PUBLISHERS’ ASSOCIATION NEWSPAPER AND MAIL DELIVERERS’
OF NEW YORK CITY UNION OF NEW YORK AND VICINITY

By: By:
Christopher Biegner Frank Sparacino

WE HEREBY AGREE to act as Trustees in accordance with
the terms and conditions of this Agreement and Declaration of
Trust. By our signatures below, we hereby signify and
acknowledge that: we have read the foregoing instrument, fully
understand the contents thereof and agree to comply with all of
its terms and provisions.

EMPLOYER TRUSTEES: UNION TRUSTEES:
Vb / +)
‘s pane aig Frank Sparacino
Robert Nusspickle Patrick Lagan

Joseph Cotter

46

FUND0002322



”

thé Board) or any person claiming by or through them (by reason
© of having been named a Beneficiary or otherwise), shall have any
right, title or interest in any of the income.or property of. any

character received or held by ‘or for the account of the Fund. or
any Plan. No such person’ siall have any right to any benefit

provided by the Plan, nor shall any such person-be entitled to
any payment (or other interest)’ from the assets of the Fund .—
unless and until the Board determines that he fulfills all the >
requirements necessary to receive a benefit in accordance with —
the specific provisions of the Plan. -

12.16 Trust Grants No Interest to Employees. Neither —
the creation of this Fund nor anything’ contained in this Agree~-
ment shall be construed as giving any Covered Employee (or
Beneficiary) entitled to benefits hereunder or under’the Plan any
right to be continued in the employ of any Contributing Employer
or any equity or other interest in the assets of the Fund, except ~
as set forth in the Plan.

continue in effect without limit as to time; subject, however, to
the provisions of this Agreement relating to amendment, modifica~
tion and termination thereof set forth in Article 10.

42.17 Duration of Agreement. This Agreement shall

e+ * *& &

| IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned do hereby cause
this instrument to be executed as of the day and year first above.
written by their proper officers thereunto duly authorized on the
1st day of September, 1993.

THE PUBLISHERS’ ASSOCIATION NEWSPAPER AND MAIL DELIVERERS’
OF NEW YORK CITY UNION OF NEW YORK AND VICINITY

oe 3 fl 7
Christopher Biegner Frank Spayacino

By:

WE HEREBY AGREE to act as Trustees in accordance with
the terms and conditions of this Agreement and Declaration. of —:
Trust. By our Signatures below, we hereby signify:and © eo
acknowledge that we have read the. foregoing instrument, fully
understand the contents thereof and agree to comply with'all of
its terms and provisions. |

foe flop
ZL we M Spee)

age

Barbara Kalish Frank,Sparacino

cept LPL Loe |
Robert Nusspickle ff 2m
re Lf

ay / Joseph Cotter

EMPLOYER TRUSTEES: UNION TRUSTEES:

46

FUND0002323



AMENDMENT NO. 1
TO THE

AGREEMENT AND DECLARATION OF TRUST
ESTABLISHING THE |
NEWSPAPER AND MAIL DELIVERERS’-
PUBLISHERS’ PENSION FUND,
‘AS AMENDED AND RESTATED

(as amended and restated effective as of September 1, 1993)

Pursuant to Section 10.1 of the Agreement and Declaration of Trust establishing —
the Newspaper and Mail Deliverers’-Publishers’ Pension Fund (the “Trust Agreement”), as
amended and restated effective as of September 1, 1993, the Plan is hereby amended as follows,
effective as of July 15, 1999:

L. Section 12.8(b) of the Trust Agreement is amended by replacing the
existing text with the following:

(b) othe Fund Director:

Mr. Murray Schwartz

Newspaper and Mail Deliverers’--

Publishers’ Pension Fund a | ~
47-18 27" Street

Long Island City, New York 11101

HE

UNION TRUSTEE EMPLOYER TRUSTEE _
UNION ay) EMPLOYER TRUSTEE
N ght

FUND0002324



AMENDMENT NO. 2
_ FOTHE

AGREEMENT AND DECLARATION OF TRUST
ESTABLISHING THE _
NEWSPAPER AND MAIL DELIVERERS’-
AS AMENDED AND RESTATED

(as amended and restated effective aS of September 1, 1993)

Pursuant to Section 10.1 of the Agreement and Declaration of Trust establishing the
Newspaper and Mail Deliverers’-Publishers’ Pension Fund (the “Trust Agreement’), as amended
and restated effective as of September 1, 1993, the Trust Agreement is hereby amended as |
follows, effectiveas of August 1,2009: | :

"1. Section 9.5(b) of the Trust Agreement is amended by replacing the existing text with

(b) A delinquent Employer shall be liable for any expensesincurredin...
effectuating such payment (including, but not limited to, arbitration
~ expenses, counsel fees, court costs, and interest at a rate of 18 percent per
um ox such other interest rate that the Trustees deem appropriate given
vcumstance : 7 :

. . . EMPLO ve CTRUSTER )

NTRUSTEE "os. EMPLOYER TRUSTEE

(NIONTRUSEE

00148868.DOC.}

FUND0002325


AMENDMENT NO. 3
TO THE

AGREEMENT AND DECLARATION OF TRUST
ESTABLISHING THE
NEWSPAPER AND MAIL DELIVERERS’-
PUBLISHERS’ PENSION FUND,

AS AMENDED AND RESTATED

(as amended and restated effective as of September 1, 1993)

Pursuant to Section 10.1 of the Agreement and Declaration of Trust establishing the
Newspaper and Mail Deliverers’-Publishers’ Pension Fund (the “Trust Agreement”), as amended
and restated effective as of September 1, 1993, the Trust Agreement is hereby amended as

follows:

1. Section 12.8(a)-(d) of the Trust Agreement, as previously amended by Amendment
No. 1 to the Trust Agreement, is further amended by replacing the existing text with
the following:

(a) To the Board: Famers

Board of Trustees | .
Newspaper and Mail Deliverers’-Publishers” Pension Fund
24-16 Queens Plaza South, Suite 204

Long Island City, NY 11101

(b) To the Fund Director: - -

Mr. Murray Schwartz

Newspaper and Mail Deliverers’-Publishers’ Pension Fund
24-16 Queens Plaza South, Suite 204

Long Island City, NY 11101

(c) To the Union:

Newspaper & Mail Deliverers Union of New York and Vicinity
24-16 Queens Plaza South, Suite 306
Long Island City, NY 11101 ;

90159354. DOC

FUND0002326



(d) To the Association:

Publishers’ Association of New York City
c/o The New York Times. : . os
620 E ighth Avenue

anetove inst / ()

ope TRUSTEE Ly EMPLOYER TRUSTEE O-
“Wate: May 19, 2010 Date: May 19,2010
UNION TRUSTEE

Date: May 19; 20107 77

FUND0002327


TA

AMENDMENT NO. 4 TO THE AGREEMENT AND DECLARATION OF TRUST
ESTABLISHING THE NEWSPAPER AND MAIL DELIVERERS’—PUBLISHERS’

PENSION FUND, AS AMENDED AND RESTATED

(As amended and restated effective as of September 1, 1993)

Pursuant to Section 10.1 of the Agreement and Declaration of Trust establishing

the Newspaper and Mail Deliverers’-Publishers’ Pension Fund (the “Trust Agreement”), as
amended and restated effective as of September 1, 1993, the Trust Agreement is hereby amended
as follows, effective as of May 2, 2011.

1.

The Preamble to the Trust Agreement is amended to reflect the names of the

current Trustees so that it reads in its entirety as follows:

2.
the following:

THIS AGREEMENT AND DECLARATION OF TRUST,
adopted as of February 20, 1956, and amended and restated,
effective as of September 1, 1993, establishing the Newspaper and
Mail Deliverers’—Publishers’ Pension Fund (the “Fund” or
“Plan’’), by and among (a) The Publishers’ Association of New
York City (the “Association”), acting on behalf of employers in the
newspaper delivery industry who are members of the Association,
and such other employers which from time to time become
contributing employers hereunder, and their successors and assigns
(collectively, the “Employers”) and The Newspaper and Mail
Deliverers’ Union of New York and Vicinity and its affiliates and
their successors and assigns (collectively, the “Union”), and (b) the
following individuals: TERRY HAYES, DANIEL MURPHY,
JAMES DEMARZO, and CHARLES SETTEDUCATO, and their
successors and assigns (such persons and others who from time to
time are designated hereunder, being hereinafter collectively
referred to as the “Trustees” of the Fund).

Section 3.1 of the Trust Agreement is amended by replacing the existing text with

3.1 Composition of Trustees. The Trustees under this
Agreement, who shall be the Trustees of the Trust created and
established hereunder, shall be two (2) Employer Trustees, who
shall be selected by the Association, and two (2) Union Trustees,
who shall be selected by the Union. The appointment of Trustees
shall be selected by the provisions of Section 3.4. _

FUND0002328



3. Section 3.3 of the Trust Agreement is amended by replacing the existing text with
the following: | ee oe |

3.3

(a) The Trustees currently designated by the
Association are: TERRY HAYES and DANIEL MU RPHY.

(b) The Trustees currently designated by the Union : are:
JAMES DEMARZO and CHARLES SETTEDUCATO.

4, Section 3.8 of the Trust Agreement is amended by replacing the existing text with
the following: 7

3.8 Removal of Union Trustees. The Union Trustees shall be:
the incumbent president and vice president/secretary treasurer of
the Union. Those persons shall serve as Union Trustees unless
prevented from doing so by operation of applicable law, in which
case a Successor Union Trustee shall be elected from the full-time

_ officers of the Union. Should any Union Trustee be removed from
office by operation of law, notice thereof shall be filed with the .
Board by an instrument in writing signed by the principal officer of
the Union, and shall become effective immediately upon such
filing. : : Fo

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Board of Trustees has adopted this Amendment No. 4 to
be effective as of May 2, 2011, and the parties hereto have s set their signatures to indicate

}such adoption. os oe
UNION TRUSTEE (2 a} y “EC

UNION TRUSTEE --~“EMPLOYER TRUSPRE

FUND0002329