

EXHIBIT B


Ne

4 a

AIRTIME ROYALTY AGREEMENT

AGREEMENT entered into as of the a4. day of February 1995 by and between The
George Washington University (the “University”) and Eastern Cable Networks Corp.
(“SENET”).

WHEREAS the University has been issued a license (the “License”) by the Federal
Communications Commission (the “FCC”) to construct and operate Instructional Television
Fixed Service (“ITFS”) station WHG442 (Washington, DC) utilizing the D Group channels
(the “D Group Station”); and

WHEREAS the FCC has authorized licensees of Instructional Television Fixed Service
(“ITFS”) stations to lease excess capacity on their stations for the transmission of commercial
programming by wireless cable system operators, and

WHEREAS the University and Hybrid Networks, Inc. (“Hybrid”) entered into a
Channel Lease Agreement (the “Hybrid Agreement”) dated December 31, 1993 which granted
Hybrid the right to utilize certain transmission capacity of channel D2; and

WHEREAS the FCC, by letter dated February 28, 1994, found that the 24 hours per
day of the programming to be transmitted over channel D2 by Hybrid satisfies the ITFS
programming requirements set forth in section 74.931(e) of the FCC’s Rules; and

WHEREAS ENET owns and operates the sole wireless cable system providing video
programming and other communications services within the Washington, DC metropolitan
area and is agreeable to providing the University with access to transmission equipment,
operational support and royalties in exchange for access to certain excess capacity on the
University’s system upon the issuance to the University of a license authorizing the University
to relocate the D Group Station to ENET’s wireless cable headend in Bethesda, MD with the
same technical configuration as the other facilities comprising ENET’s wireless cable system;
and

WHEREAS the University has determined that excess capacity exists on the D Group
Station and is desirous of providing ENET with access to such excess capacity in exchange
for access to transmission equipment, operational support and royalties;

NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual promises set forth herein, the
University and ENET do hereby agree to the following terms and conditions:

1. TERM.

A. Initial Term. The initial term of this Agreement shall commence upon the date
hereof and shall extend until August 29, 1998.
 Oe

7 . t 3



B. Automatic Renewal Terms.

l. Provided that this Agreement has not been otherwise terminated pursuant
to Section XI and that the University shall have filed an application for renewal of the
License, this Agreement shall automatically renew for an additional term ending upon the
earlier of: (i) the date that is ten years from the date hereof; or (ii) such date, if any, that the
FCC denies the application of the University for renewal of the License, unless ENET
provides to the University at least ninety days notice prior to the expiration of the initial term
that it does not intend to renew this Agreement.

Cc. ight irst Refusal.

1. ENET shall have the exclusive right to match the material terms and
conditions of any bona fide offer to lease excess capacity from the University during any or
all of the period from the expiration of the automatic renewal term under Section LB through
two years thereafter (the “Right of First Refusal”). ;

2. If the University desires to enter into an agreement to lease excess
capacity that would commence anytime within two years after the expiration of the automatic
renewal term under Section I.B, the University must provide written notice to ENET at the
commencement of any negotiations regarding such lease and must provide written notice to
the party with whom it is negotiating of ENET’s Right of First Refusal. Such notice must
be given one year prior to expiration of the contract.

3. Within seven (7) days of receiving a bona fide offer to lease excess
capacity acceptable to the University, the University shall serve ENET with a written notice
containing the material terms and conditions of that offer, identifying the offeror and stating
the University’s intent to accept the offer in the event that ENET does not elect to match the
offer on substantially the same material terms and conditions as those contained in the notice.
The University shall not accept any offer to lease excess capacity that includes terms or
conditions that have the purpose or the effect of preventing ENET from exercising its Right
of First Refusal. Within thirty (30) days of ENET’s receipt of the University’s written notice,
ENET shall notify the University in writing of its desire to exercise its Right of First Refusal.

4, In the event that ENET refuses to exercise its Right of First Refusal with
respect to any offer, and any material term of such offer is subsequently changed, before
accepting such changed offer the University must follow the procedures specified in the
foregoing subsections, providing ENET with notice regarding the revised offer and giving
ENET the opportunity to exercise its Right of First Refusal with regard thereto.

I. THE APPLICATIONS.



. oe ry

FEB-16-1995 12:45 SINDERBRAND + ALEXANDER 262 B358291 P.@2

A. Preparation and Filing.

1. Within ninety (90) days from the date hereof, ENET shall provide the
University with: (i) an application for modification of the License for the D Group Station
that would permit the construction and operation by the University of the D Group Station
at ENET’s wireless cable headend site in Bethesda proposing the same system design as
ENET employs for the other stations located at such headend site (the “Modification
Application”); (ii) an application for authority to modify the University’s existing E Group
studio-to-transmitter link (the “STL Link”) that would permit the relocation of the receive
point of such link to ENET’s wireless cable headend site in Bethesda and make such other
changes (including changes in transmitter frequency and the addition of multiple hops) as
ENET believes necessary (the “STL Modification Application”); and (ili) an application for
authority to construct a one channel point-to-point link between the University and its
Leesburg campus (the “PTP Link”) designed for two-way capability, which PTP Link may
consist of multiple hops, if necessary (the “PTP Application”). Upon grant by the FCC of
the FCC Applications, the authorized facilities shall become the “D Group Station,” the “STL
Link” and the “PTP Link” for purposes of this Agreement. .

2. The facilities proposed in the Modification Application shail be designed by
ENET to transmit signals of a quality and reliability at least equal to that of the University’s
current D Group Station. The facilities proposed in the STL Modification Application shall
be designed by ENET to transmit signals of a quality and reliability equal to that of the
University’s current E Group STL Link. The facilities proposed in the PTP Application shall
be designed by ENET to transmit signals of a quality and reliability at least equal to
RS 250B. Prior to such time as ENET submits the Modification Application, the STL
Modification Application and the PTP Application (collectively, the “FCC Applications”), it
will also submit to the University a written plan specifying such changes in the existing
facilities of the University and the lessee of excess capacity of channel D2 as ENET believes
necessary to accomplish such goals (the “Modification Plan”). The University shall promptly
review the FCC Applications and the Modification Plan, and, within thirty (30) days of
receipt, either file the FCC Applications with the FCC (which filing shall evidence agreement
that implementation of the proposals set forth in the FCC Applications and the Modification
Plan will accomplish the goals set forth in this paragraph) or commence good faith
negotiations with ENET to make such revisions to the FCC Applications or the Modification
Plan as the University shall reasonably require to accomplish the goals set forth in this
paragraph. If the parties are unable to reach agreement after good faith negotiations, this
Agreement shall terminate and the University shall refund to ENET the Commitment Fee (as
such term is defined in Paragraph V.A.}, less the University’s reasonable costs in negotiating
this Agreement and complying with its obligations thereunder prior to such termination.
 a



B. Prosecution of Applications, The parties shall promptly and diligently file and
expeditiously prosecute all necessary amendments to the FCC Applications, briefs, pleadings,
waiver requests, requests for special temporary authority, documents and supporting data, and
take all such actions and give all such notices as may be required or requested by the FCC
or as may be appropriate in any effort to expedite the grant of the FCC Applications. The
parties recognize that the FCC may return or dismiss the FCC Applications. In such event,
the parties agree to utilize their best efforts, at ENET’s reasonable cost and expense, to submit
a replacement for the FCC Applications (along with any necessary requests for waiver or
special temporary authority) at such time as ENET reasonably determines to be provident.
Such replacement applications shall become the “ECC Applications” for purposes of this
Agreement. In the event any person petitions the FCC to deny one or more of the FCC
Applications or otherwise opposes one or more of the FCC Applications before the FCC, or
in the event the FCC enters an order granting an FCC Application and any person petitions
for reconsideration or review of such order before the FCC or appeals or applies for review
in any judicial proceeding, then ENET and the University agree to oppose such petition before
the FCC or defend such order of the FCC diligently and in absolute good faith, at ENET’s
cost and expense, to the end that the transactions contemplated by this Agreement may be™
finally consummated. Notwithstanding the foregoing sentence, if ENET’s counsel provides
a good faith written estimate that the legal fees associated with opposing any challenge to one
or both of the FCC Applications or any order granting one or more of the FCC Applications
will exceed Fifteen Thousand Dollars ($15,000), ENET may notify the University and afford
the University a period of five (5) business days to agree to share jointly in all reasonable and
necessary legal fees in excess of Fifteen Thousand Dollars ($15,000). The University may
elect not to share jointly in such fees without incurring any liability to ENET hereunder
whatsoever. If the University does not notify ENET within such period that it agrees to
provide such funding, ENET shall not be obligated to expend more than such amount in
opposing any challenge to one or both of the FCC Applications or any order granting one or
more of the FCC Applications and may cease its opposition to the challenge or its defense
of the FCC Applications without liability.

On Amendment of Applications. -

L. The University and ENET acknowledge the possibility that as a result
of currently unforeseen events, advances in technology, filings by third parties or changes in
the FCC’s rules and policies, the technical configuration of the D Group Station and the STL
Link may prevent ENET from optimizing its business throughout the term of this Agreement.
The University therefore agrees that if at any time and from time to time ENET so requests,
the University shall use its best efforts to further amend the FCC Applications as may be
necessary to modify the proposed D Group Station, STL Link and PTP Link (including,
without limiting the generality of the foregoing, to increase transmitted power, to increase
antenna height, to modify the transmission and antenna systems, to utilize compression or
frequency reuse technology, to change channel assignments, or to relocate the D Group

-4-



Station) to meet the reasonable requirements of ENET, provided that such modification
(i) will not have an adverse effect on the ability of the University to serve its then-existing
receive sites and any specific future receive sites which the University has notified ENET it
intends to install and (ii) will not cause the University to breach its obligations under the
Hybrid Agreement. ENET shall bear all reasonable costs associated with such amendment,
including engineering and construction, and all reasonable costs associated with obtaining
FCC approval thereof, provided that such costs are approved by ENET in advance in writing.
Upon the filing of such amendment, the amended FCC Applications shall become the “FCC
Applications” for purposes of this Agreement.

ental licati

1. The parties recognize that, despite their best efforts pursuant to Paragraph
XII.A, the FCC may enter an order that becomes a Final Order (as such term is defined in
Paragraph XIII.T) denying the Modification Application. In such event, the University shall
retain the commitment fee as such term is defined in Paragraph V.A, and this Service
Agreement shall terminate without further liability between the parties. . "

2. The parties recognize that, despite their best efforts pursuant to Paragraph
XII.A, the FCC may enter an order that becomes a Final Order denying the STL Modification
Application or the PTP Application. In such event, ENET shall use its best efforts to seek
an alternative transmission source. In the event that an alternative transmission source cannot
be utilized by ENET, the University may terminate this Agreement without further liability
between the parties in its sole discretion by giving notice to ENET within ten (10) days of
such order becoming a Final Order. In the event the University does not give such notice,
this Agreement shail continue in full force and effect except that ENET’s obligations with
respect to the STL Link and/or the PTP Link as the case may be, shall be excused.

E. Grant of Applications with Conditions.

1. The parties recognize that, despite their best efforts pursuant to Paragraph
XILA, the FCC may enter an order that becomes a Final Order granting the Modification
Application with conditions materially adverse to ENET. In such event, ENET may terminate
this Agreement without further liability between the parties in its sole discretion by giving
notice to the University within ten (10) days of such order becoming a Final Order.

2. The parties recognize that, despite their best efforts pursuant to Paragraph
XII.A, the FCC may enter an order that becomes a Final Order granting the STL Modification
Application or the PTP Application with conditions materially adverse to ENET. In such
event, ENET may terminate this Agreement without further liability between the parties in
its sole discretion by giving the University notice within ten (10) days of such order becoming
a Final Order. Within ten (10) days of receipt of such notice, the University may rescind

-5-



¥ . . +

such termination by providing ENET notice that the Agreement shall continue in full force
and effect except that ENET’s obligations with respect to the STL Link and/or the PTP Link,
as the case may be, shall be excused.

3. The parties recognize that, despite their best efforts pursuant to Paragraph
XIIL.A, the FCC may enter an order that becomes a Final Order granting one or more of the
FCC Applications with conditions materially adverse to the University. Within ten (10) days
of such event, the University may terminate this Agreement by notifying ENET, in which
case ENET within ten (10) days may offer to provide the University with an indemnification
against any and all losses, damages, injuries or other liabilities the University incurs or may
during the term of this Agreement incur as a result of such conditions. The University may
accept or reject such offer at its reasonable discretion.

F. Expenses. All reasonable costs and expenses, including legal and engineering, in
connection with the preparation of this Agreement and the preparation, review, filing and
prosecution of all of the University’s applications required by this Agreement shall be borne
by ENET. . ;

Ill. FACILITIES.

A. Construction of Modified D Group Station. STL Link and PTP Link.. As soon
as reasonably possible, and in no event more than three (3) months after the FCC shall have
granted the Modification Application, the STL Modification Application, and the PTP
Application and such grants shall have become Final Orders, ENET shall secure the requisite
space (except for space for the PTP Link and the origination portion of the STL Link, which
shall be supplied at no cost to ENET by the University) and order state-of-the-art equipment
for the D Group Station, the PTP Link and, if necessary to accomplish the goals set forth in
Paragraph II.A.2, the STL Link, consistent with the terms of the University’s FCC
authorizations, of the FCC’s rules, of the Modification Plan and of this Agreement. Such
equipment shall be installed by ENET subject to such supervision and control by the
University as shall be required under the FCC’s rules within ninety (90) days of receipt of
all such equipment. Subsequently, throughout the term of this Agreement, ENET shail
provide the University and Hybrid Networks, Inc. access to,appropriate space (except for
space for the PTP Link and the origination portion of the STL Link, which shall be supplied
at no cost to ENET by the University), complete with utilities and necessary environmental
controls, transmitters, waveguide, antennas and associated combiners, jumpers and connectors
for the D Group Station and the STL Link (which equipment may be shared with other
stations), in exchange for the University’s faithful performance of its obligations hereunder.
Upon expiration of this Agreement or nonrenewal of this Agreement for reasons other than
the exercise by ENET of its rights under Section XI.B.(2), the University shall be afforded
an opportunity for a period of thirty (30) days after such expiration or nonrenewal to purchase
from ENET the transmission equipment referenced in the immediately preceding sentence

-6-



(other than that equipment which is shared with other stations) for an amount equal to the
then-current market value of such used equipment. In the event that this Agreement is
terminated pursuant to Paragraph XI.A: (i) the University shall be afforded an opportunity
for a period of thirty (30) days after such termination to purchase from ENET the
transmission equipment referenced above (other than that equipment which is shared with
other stations) for ONE DOLLAR ($1.00); and (ii) ENET shall permit the University to
utilize that equipment which is shared with other stations and maintain the D Group Station
and the STL Link at the transmission site until the date that is ten years from the date hereon.

B. Reception Equipment. Prior to the Start Date, ENET shall, at its sole cost,
reorient all of the reception antennas mounted on the receive sites of the University and the
lessee of excess capacity on channel D2 listed on Schedule A so as to optimize their ability
to receive programming from the modified D Group Station in accordance with the
Modification Plan. The University shall cooperate, and shall use its best efforts to cause the
lessee of excess capacity on channel D2 to cooperate, in providing ENET access to such
reception antennas. ;

C. Start Date. For purposes of this Agreement, the Start Date shall be the first
date of the calendar month after ENET shall have completed construction of the D Group
Station, the STL Link and the PTP Link and implemented the Modification Plan in
accordance with the provisions of Paragraph Ill.A and begun broadcasting the D Group.

D. Operation and Maintenance. During the term of this Agreement, ENET, at its
own cost and expense, shall retain technically qualified personnel to operate, repair, and
maintain the D Group Station under the technical direction, supervision and control of the
University to assure continued operation of the D Group Station in accordance with the
License and the FCC’s rules and regulations. Such personnel shall transmit over the D Group
Station all programming submitted by the University for transmission during the University
Capacity, provided that such programming is provided by the University in the form of a
continuous feed (i.e. ENET shall not be responsible for playing individual tapes, video disks,
or other discrete program sources, but shall be responsible for interconnecting the STL Link
or any other terrestrial microwave receiver supplied by the University). Except for the repair
of damages caused by the intentional actions or gross negligence of the University or as
otherwise provided herein, ENET shall bear all costs and expenses associated with operating
and maintaining the D Group Station, the STL Link and the PTP Link. ENET shall make
available to the University upon reasonable request records of all services, repairs and
maintenance activities.

E. Modification of Transmission Facilities.

l. The University and ENET acknowledge the possibility that as a result
of currently unforeseen events, advances in technology or changes in the FCC’s rules and

-7-



policies, the technical configuration of the D Group Station and the STL Link may prevent
ENET from optimizing its business throughout the term of this Agreement. The University
therefore agrees that if at any time and from time to time ENET so requests, the University
shall use its best efforts to apply to the FCC for such authority as may be necessary to modify
the transmission facilities (including, without limiting the generality of the foregoing, to
increase transmitted power, to increase antenna height, to modify the transmission and antenna
systems, to utilize digital compression or frequency reuse technology, to change channel
assignment, or to relocate the D Group Station and the STL Link) to meet the reasonable
requirements of ENET, provided that such modification (i) will not have an adverse effect on
the ability of the University to serve its then-existing receive sifes and any specific future
receive sites which the University has notified ENET it intends to install and (i) will not
cause the University to breach its obligations under the Hybrid Agreement. ENET shall bear
all reasonable costs associated with such modifications, including engineering and
construction, and all reasonable costs associated with obtaining FCC approval thereof,
provided that such costs are approved by ENET in advance in writing. Upon the completion
of such modifications, the modified facilities shall become the “D Group Station” or the “STL
Link” for purposes of this Agreement. . ;

2. Commencing no later than twelve (12) months after the FCC shall have
adopted rules and policies to govern the use of digital compression technology in wireless
cable systems and one or more equipment manufacturers have available for immediate
purchase reliable and cost-effective digital compression and decompression equipment capable
of providing a minimum of four video programs and associated audio signals over a 6 MHz
channel with no material degradation in quality and at the University’s request, ENET shall,
if possible consistent with the FCC’s then-existing rules and policies, prepare an application
for modification of the License to permit the use of digital compression technology on
channel D1. The University shall use its best efforts to secure such modifications to the FCC
authorizations for the D Group Station and the STL Link as are necessary to implement
digital compression technology. ENET shall bear all reasonable costs associated with such
applications, including all reasonable costs associated with obtaining FCC approval thereof,
and implementing the authorized modifications, provided that such costs are approved by
ENET in advance in writing. However, in the event of an emergency, such costs may be
approved verbally by an executive of ENET. Upon the completion of such modifications, the
modified facilities shall become the “D Group Station” or the “STL Link” for purposes of this

Agreement.

3. Because the location and configuration of the D Group Station is critical
to ENET’s business, the University shall not attempt to amend the FCC Applications or
modify any authorization issued by the FCC to relocate or reconfigure the D Group Station
without the prior written consent of ENET, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld.



ty. USE OF EXCESS CAPACITY. Consistent with the rules and policies adopted by the
FCC in Report and Order, FCC 94-147, MM Docket No. 93-106 (rel. July 6, 1994), the
University agrees to make available to ENET the entire 6 MHz transmission capacity of the
channels designated as D3 and D4 (SENET Capacity”) for use by ENET for any legal
purpose, without any restriction on the substance, format or type of information or signal to
be transmitted thereover except as required by law or this Agreement. The University shall
also have the right to recapture, on six (6) months advance notice to ENET, simultaneous use
of the channels comprising ENET Capacity from Monday through Friday between the hours
of 9:00 am and 11:00 am and Saturday from 8:00 am to 6:00 p.m. All capacity that is not
ENET Capacity shall be deemed “University Capacity.” Implementation of digital technology
pursuant to Paragraphs III-E.1 or IIL.E.2, shall not affect the allocation of the capacity of the
D Group Station between the University and ENET, except that the capacity available for
recapture by the University on channels D3 and D4 shall be reduced so that the University
shall have available to it the ability to transmit the minimum number of video programs and
associated audio signals permitted by the FCC’s then-existing rules and policies. Upon the
implementation of digital technology, each party shall retain the ability to designate the
compression ratio for its capacity if the equipment purchased and installed by ENET permits

dynamic allocation.

V. ROYALTIES.

A. Commitment Fee. Concurrent with the execution of this agreement, ENET shall
pay to the University a commitment fee (the “Commitment Fee”) of Forty Thousand Dollars
($40,000).

B. Rovalty. In consideration of the airtime to be provided hereunder by the
University, ENET agrees to pay to the University a monthly royalty equal to the greater of:
Two Thousand Five Hundred Dollars ($2,500.00) or (ii) Twenty Cents ($0.20) for each
subscriber to ENET’s wireless cable service.

l. Computation of Royalty. For purposes of computing the Royalty due
for any month, the number of subscribers to ENET’s wireless cable system shall be calculated.
as the number of such subscribers to ENET’s wireless cable business as of the first day of
the month. In those situations where programming is sold in bulk for viewing at isolated
locations in the same facility (that is, where a number of viewing units are grouped for billing
purposes such as may be the case with hotels and condominiums) and ENET’s rates therefore
are less than its prevailing monthly rate for the sale of ENET’s service to individual
subscribers in the system, the number of subscribers from such bulk billing points shall be
determined by dividing the total monthly revenues derived from the sale of ENET’s
programming in said bulk billing divided by ENET’s then prevailing monthly rate for the sale
of programming to individual subscribers.



C. equired ‘ficate and Payment Dates. The first Royalty payment shall be
due on the twentieth day of the first full calendar month after the D Group Station has been
constructed and is broadcasting at ENET’s wireless cable headend and all following payments
shall be paid to the University on twentieth day of each subsequent month. ENET shall mail
each Royalty payment to the University by first class United States mail, postage prepaid,
together with a certificate signed by an employee or agent of ENET showing the number of
subscribers served during each month of such period.

D. Right to Audit. ENET shall, for a period of eighteen (18) months after their
creation, keep, maintain and preserve complete and accurate records and accounts, including
all invoices, correspondence, ledgers, financial and other records pertaining to the University’s
royalties hereunder and such records and accounts shall be available for inspection and audit
at ENET’s office at any time or times during the time service is being provided to ENET
hereunder or within ninety (90) days thereafter, during reasonable business hours, by the
University or its nominee (who must be a Certified Public Accountant). The University shall
be entitled each calendar year to undertake one audit of ENET’s records and accounts. The
University shall provide ENET with thirty (30) business days’ advance written notice of its
intent to audit said records and accounts prior to being allowed to do so.

E. Subscriber Contracts. The University shall not interfere with the right of ENET
to lawfully modify, waive, rescind, terminate or cancel any and all services or contracts with
subscribers. In case any such services or contracts are modified, waived, rescinded,
terminated or cancelled, the University shall not be entitled to any participation in revenues
or claims whatsoever with respect to the unperformed portion of any such contract.

F, Proration of Fees. In the event that this Agreement shall be terminated on a
date other than the last day of a calendar month, then the Royalty for such month shall be

proportionately reduced.

G. faxes. The Royalty provided for in this Agreement is the gross charge to
ENET. If federal, state, or local taxes or fees (other than taxes on the income of ENET) are
applicable, or become applicable, it will be the responsibility of the University to pay such

‘taxes or fees.
VIL INSURANCE

A. Policies Required. ENET shall, at its own cost, maintain with sound and
financially reputable insurers, insurance with respect to the D Group Station and ENET’s
utilization of the D Group Station against casualty and other losses of the kinds customarily
insured against by firms of established reputations engaged in the same or a similar line of
business, of such types and in such amounts as are customarily carried under similar
circumstances by such firms, including, without limitation:

-10-



1. “A Il-risk” property insurance covering the D Group Station to the extent
of one hundred percent (100%) of its full replacement value without deduction for
depreciation; and

2. Comprehensive general public liability insurance covering liability
resulting from ENET’s operation of the D Group Station on an occurrence basis having
minimum limits of liability in an amount of not less than One Million Dollars ($1,000,000)
for bodily injury, personal injury or death to any person or persons in any one occurrence, and
not less than Two Million Dollars ($2,000,000) in the aggregate for all such losses during
each policy year, and not less than One Million Dollars ($1,000,000) with respect to damage
to property

B. Insurance Policv Forms. All policies of insurance required by this Section shall,
as appropriate, designate the University as either the insured party or as an additional insured,
shall be written as primary policies, not contributory with and not in excess of any coverage
which the University shall carry, and shall contain a provision that the issuer shall give to the |
University thirty (30) days prior written notice of any cancellation or lapse of such insurance
or of any change in the coverage thereof. ENET shall provide the University with copies of
all policies, riders and modifications necessary to demonstrate compliance with the
requirements of this Section prior to commencing operation of the D Group Station, and shall
provide the University with copies of any modifications to those documents prior to the
effective date of such modifications.

VIL CONTROL OVER PROGRAMMING, ENET may utilize ENET Capacity to transmit
one or more of the programming networks identified on Schedule A hereto, to transmit any
sports programming network, to retransmit the signal of any television broadcast station, to
transmit any motion picture given a rating of G, PG, PG-13 or any similar rating by the
Motion Picture Association of America, or an other programming agreed to by the University.
No other programming or other service shall be transmitted by ENET over the D Group
Station without the express prior approval of the University, which consent shall not be
unreasonably withheld. Moreover, the University reserves the absolute right to deny ENET
the right to transmit over the D Group Station any program which is obscene as defined by
the laws of the United States, the District of Columbia, the State of Maryland, or the
Commonwealth of Virginia or which would violate the rules and regulations of the FCC.

VIII. MAINTENANCE OF FCC AUTHORIZATION.

A. Through the term of this Agreement, the University shall utilize its best efforts
to take all actions reasonably required to secure and preserve an authorization for the D Group
Station and to permit ENET to use excess capacity thereon pursuant to the terms and
conditions of this Agreement. The University shall obtain and maintain in force all licenses,
permits and authorizations required or desired in connection with the use of the D Group

-~ |] -



Station. Except as set forth in Section VIII.B, the University shall take all necessary steps
to renew the licenses for the D Group Station and shall not commit any act or engage in any
activity which could reasonably be expected to cause the FCC to impair, restrict, revoke,
cancel, suspend or refuse to renew the license for the D Group Station. The University shall
take all reasonable steps to comply with the Communications Act of 1934, as amended and
the rules and regulations of the FCC, and shall timely file all reports, schedules and/or forms
required by the FCC to be filed by the University. All reasonable expenses, including
attorneys fees and filing fees, incurred in preparing and filing such reports, schedules and/or
forms required by the FCC shall be paid by ENET.

B. During the Term of this Agreement or at anytime within two years after the
expiration of the last automatic renewal term under Section J.B, the University may return its
license for the D Group Station to the FCC for cancellation or elect not to renew its license,
provided that the University gives one (1) year’s prior written notice to ENET. Upon written
request of ENET during such one (1) year period, the University shall assign at no cost its
license to such eligible entity as ENET shall designate that is willing to assumeall remaining_
obligations and benefits of the University under this Agreement, subject to FCC consent. The
parties shall promptly and diligently prepare and file, and expeditiously prosecute any
necessary assignment application (the “Assignment Application”), and take all such actions
and give all such notices as may be required or requested by the FCC or as may be
appropriate in any effort to expedite the authorization of such assignment. Until such time
as the FCC issues a Final Order disposing of the Assignment Application, the University shall
take no action that would jeopardize ENET’s rights under this Agreement. In the event any
person petitions the FCC to deny the Assignment Application or otherwise opposes the
Assignment Application before the FCC, or in the event the FCC enters an order granting the
Assignment Application and any person petitions for reconsideration or review of such order
before the FCC or appeals or applies for review in any judicial proceeding, then ENET and
the University agree to oppose such petition before the FCC or defend such order of the FCC
diligently and in absolute good faith, at ENET’s cost and expense, to the end that the
transactions contemplated by this Agreement may be finally consummated.

IX. INDEMNIFICATION.

A. Indemnification by ENET. ENET hereby covenants and agrees to, and shail,
indemnify, defend and save harmless the University, its officers, employees and agents (the
“Indemnitees”) from and against and shall reimburse any Indemnitee on demand for any and
all liabilities, losses, damages, claims, demands, actions, costs and expenses (including
without limitations, reasonable court costs and attomeys’ fees) of whatsoever kind or nature,
which any of the Indemnitees may suffer, sustain, incur, pay, expend or lay out by reason,
by virtue or as a result of (i) each and every breach or default by ENET of any of its
covenants, agreements, duties or obligations hereunder, (ii) each and every breach or default
of, or inaccuracy or omission in, any representation or warranty of ENET contained herein,

-12-



or (iii) the gross negligence or willful misconduct of ENET, its officers, directors,
stockholders, employees or agents in connection with the performance of this Agreement.
Moreover, ENET shall forever protect, save, defend and keep the University and its officers,
employees and agents harmless and indemnify them against: (1) any and all claims, demands,
losses, costs, damages, suits, judgements, penalties, expenses and liabilities resulting from
claims of libel, slander or the infringement of copyright or the unauthorized use of any
trademark, trade name, service mark or any other claimed harm or unlawfulness arising from
the transmission of any programming; (ii) claims arising as a result of any transmission by
ENET of programming or other material that is obscene, indecent, profane, or defamatory
under 18 U.S.C. § 1464, as it may be amended from time to time, or under any other federal
statute, regulation or rule, or which is obscene, indecent, profane or defamatory under the
laws of the District of Columbia, Commonwealth of Virginia, or the State of Maryland.

B. Indemnification by the University. The University hereby covenants and agrees
to, and shall, indemnify, defend and save harmless ENET, its directors, officers, shareholders,
employees and agents (the “Indemnitees”) from and against and shall reimburse any.
Indemnitee on demand for any and all liabilities, losses, damages, claims, demands, actions,
costs and expenses (including without limitations, reasonable court costs and attorneys’ fees)
of whatsoever kind or nature, which any of the Indemnitees may suffer, sustain, incur, pay,
expend or lay out by reason, by virtue or as a result of (i) each and every breach or default
by the University of any of its covenants, agreements, duties or obligations hereunder, (11)
each and every breach or default of, or inaccuracy or omission in, any representation or
warranty of the University contained herein, or (iii) the gross negligence or willful misconduct
of the University, its officers, employees or agents in connection with the performance of this
Agreement.

C. Claims for Indemnification. Where indemnification under this Section is sought
by a party (the “Claiming Party”): (a) it shall notify in writing the other party (the
“Indemnifying Party”) promptly of any claim or litigation or threatened claim to which the
indemnification relates; (b) upon the Indemnifying Party’s written acknowledgement of its
obligation to indemnify in such instance, in form and substance satisfactory to the Claiming
Party, the Claiming Party shall afford the Indemnifying Party an opportunity to participate in
and, at the option of the Indemnifying Party, control, compromise, settle, defend or otherwise
resolve the claim or litigation (and the Claiming Party shall not effect any such compromise
or settlement without prior written consent of the Indemnifying Party); and (c) the Claiming
Party shall cooperate with the Indemnifying Party in its above-described participation in any
compromise, settlement, defense or resolution of such claim or litigation. In the event that
the Indemnifying Party does not so acknowledge its indemnification responsibility, the
Claiming Party may proceed directly to enforce its indemnification rights.

-13-


X. REPRESENTATIONS, WARRANTIES AND COVENANTS.

A. Representations, Warranties and Covenants of ENET.

l. Organization. ENET is a corporation duly organized and existing under
the laws of the State of Delaware and has full power and authority to carry out all of the
transactions contemplated hereby. Throughout the term of this Agreement, ENET shall
remain duly organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware and qualified to
do business and shall retain full power and authority to carry out all of the transactions
contemplated hereby.

2. Compliance with Agreements and Law. ENET has complied and

throughout the term of this Agreement shall comply with all laws, rules and regulations
governing its business and the ITFS facilities. Neither the execution and delivery of this
Agreement nor the performance of the transactions contemplated hereby constitutes or will
constitute a violation of, be in conflict with, constitute a default under, or be ultra vires as to,
any term or provision of any agreement or commitment to which ENET is bound, or any
statute, law, judgement, decree, order, regulation or rule of any court or governmental
authority with jurisdiction over ENET. Except for the consent of the FCC, no consent,
approval or authorization by or filing with any governmental authorities on the part of ENET
is required in connection with the transactions contemplated herein.

3. Requisite Authoritv. All requisite resolutions and other authorizations
necessary for the execution, delivery, performance and satisfaction of this Agreement by
ENET have been duly adopted and complied with.

4. Litigation. There is no action, suit, proceeding or investigation pending
or, to ENET’s best knowledge, threatened against it before any court, administrative agency
or other governmental body relating in any way to the transactions contemplated by this
Agreement, and ENET does not know of any valid basis for the commencement of any such
action, proceeding or investigation. ENET has not been charged with and, to its best
knowledge, has not been under investigation with respect to any charge concerning any
material violation of any provision of any federal, state, or local law or of any administrative
regulation. No unsatisfied judgement, order, writ, injunction, decree or assessment of any
court or of any federal, state, local or other governmental department, commission, board,
bureau, agency or instrumentality relating in any way to this Agreement has been entered
against and served upon it. There is no action, proceeding or investigation pending or, to its
best knowledge, threatened against ENET, nor are there pending any inquiries or challenges
that otherwise seek to prevent the consummation or performance of this Agreement.

5. Financial Ability. EENET has reasonable assurance of the funding
necessary to comply with its obligations to the University under this Agreement.

-|4-


B. resentations, Warranties and Covenant t iversity.

I. Organization. The University is duly organized and existing under the
laws of the District of Columbia and has full power and authority and is eligible to hold the
License for the D Group Station and to carry out all of the transactions contemplated hereby.
Throughout the term of this Agreement, the University shall remain duly organized and
existing under the laws of the District of Columbia and shall retain full power and authority
and eligibility to hold the License for the D Group Station and to carry out all of the
transactions contemplated hereby.

2. Compliance with Agreements and Law. The University has complied
and throughout the term of this Agreement shall comply in all material respects with all laws,
rules and regulations governing the ownership and operation of the D Group Station,
including those of the FCC. Neither the execution and delivery of this Agreement nor the
performance of the transactions contemplated hereby constitutes or will constitute a violation
of, be in conflict with, constitute a default under, or be ultra vires as to, any term or provision-
of any agreement or commitment to which it is bound, or any statute, law, judgement, decree,
order, regulation or rule of any court or governmental authority with jurisdiction over the
University. Except for the consent of the FCC, no consent, approval or authorization by or
filing with any governmental authorities on the part of the University is required in
connection with the transactions contemplated herein.

3. Requisite Authority. All requisite resolutions and other authorizations
necessary for the execution, delivery, performance and satisfaction of this Agreement by the
University have been duly adopted and complied with.

4, Litigation. There is no action, suit, proceeding or investigation pending
or, to the University’s best knowledge, threatened against it before any court, administrative
agency or other governmental body relating in any way to the transactions contemplated by
this Agreement, and the University does not know of any valid basis for the commencement
of any such action, proceeding or investigation. The University has not been charged with
and, to its best knowledge, has not been under investigation with respect to any charge
concerning any material violation of any provision of any federal, state, or local law or of any
administrative regulation which would have an adverse impact on the University’s obligations
under this Agreement. No unsatisfied judgement, order, writ, injunction, decree or assessment
of any court or of any federal, state, local or other governmental department, commission,
board, bureau, agency or instrumentality relating in any way to this Agreement has been
entered against and served upon it. There is no action, proceeding or investigation pending
or, to its best knowledge, threatened against the University nor are there pending any inquiries
or challenges that otherwise seek to prevent the consummation or performance of this

Agreement.

-15-



5. Recejve Sites. Schedule B accurately identifies the site and receive
antenna located at the current receive sites of the University and the lessee of channel D2.

C. Survival of Representations and Warranties. The representations and warranties

contained in this Agreement shall not in any respect be limited or diminished by any past or
future inspection, examination or possession on the part of the parties or their representatives
of any records, documents, information or properties. Such warranties and representations
shall be deemed to be continuing during the term of this Agreement, and each party shall
have the duty promptly to notify the other of any event or circumstance which might
reasonably be deemed to constitute a breach of or lead to a breach of its warranties or
representations hereunder.

XI. TERMINATION.

A. Termination by the University. The University shall have the right to terminate
this Agreement, without further liability to ENET, in the event: (1) the University’s authority _
to operate the D Group Station in accordance herewith is terminated by the FCC (unless such
termination is due to a breach by the University of its obligations hereunder); or (2) ENET
breaches any of its material obligations hereunder, and either (a) ENET has not cured such
breach within thirty (30) days of receiving notice thereof, or (b) (if the breach ts other than
for the payment of money) ENET has not undertaken material or substantive measures to cure
such breach within thirty (30) days of receiving such notice.

B. Termination by ENET. ENET shall have the right to terminate this Agreement,
without further liability to the University in the event: (1) the University’s authority to operate
the D Group Station in accordance herewith is terminated by the FCC (unless such
termination is due to a breach by ENET of its obligations hereunder); (2) the University
breaches any of its material obligations hereunder, and such breach either is not cured within
thirty (30) days of receiving notice thereof or the University has not undertaken material or
substantive measures to cure such breach within thirty (30) days of receiving such notice;
or (3) if ENET ceases to provide wireless cable service within the Washington, DC

metropolitan area.

C.  Effect_of Termination Termination by either party pursuant to the preceding
Sections shall not affect the ability of the terminating party to seek damages in a court of law
against the other arising out of any breach of this Agreement.

XII PROSECUTION OF APPLICATIONS AND PETITIONS.
A. FCC Filings. Both parties hereto shall diligently prepare, file and prosecute

before the FCC all necessary or desirable petitions, waivers, applications and other related
documents subject to the approval of the University, which approval shall not be unreasonably

- 16-


withheld, conditioned or delayed, required to secure FCC approval of the matters addressed
herein. Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, it is understood that no filing shall
be made with the FCC with respect to the subject matter hereof unless both parties hereto
shall have reviewed said document and the University shall have consented in advance to its
submission.

B. Further Efforts. While this Agreement is in effect, the University shall use its
best reasonable efforts to obtain and maintain in force all licenses, permits and authorizations
required in connection with ENET’s use of the D Group Station hereunder. The University
shall also file such reasonable protests or other petitions to deny against applications of third
parties for licenses as may be requested by ENET. The University, if requested by ENET and
to the extent requested, shall use its reasonable best efforts to prevent any unauthorized
individual or entity from receiving the signals transmitted over the D Group Station, provided
that all costs and expenses in connection therewith are paid by ENET. The University shall
promptly notify ENET of any event which may affect the licenses, permits or authorizations
for the D Group Station. The University shall fully cooperate with all reasonable requests of
ENET for assistance in the construction, operation and maintenance of any additional facilities
which ENET may desire in order to optimize its business within the Washington/Baltimore
area, provided that ENET shall reimburse the University for all reasonable expenses incurred
by the University in providing such assistance.

(on Reimbursement of Expenses. In addition to any other obligations ENET may
have under this Agreement, ENET shall reimburse all reasonable costs and expenses incurred

by the University (including reasonable attorney and engineering fees) incurred by the
University in satisfaction of its obligations under this Section XII.

XI. MISCELLANEOUS

A. Assignments The University may assign any authorization it receives from the
FCC for ITFS channels in the Washington, DC area during the term hereof, provided that the
FCC grants its prior consent and that the assignee of such authorization assume all remaining
obligations and benefits of the University under this Agreement. Subject to the foregoing
provisions, the University may assign its authorization to an entity that does not agree to
assume all remaining obligations and benefits of the University under this Agreement,
provided that the University gives one (1) year’s prior written notice to ENET. Upon written
request of ENET during such one (1) year period, the University shall assign at no cost its
license to such eligible entity as ENET shall designate that is willing to assume all remaining
obligations and benefits of the University under this Agreement, subject to FCC consent. The
parties shall promptly and diligently prepare and file, and expeditiously prosecute any
necessary assignment application (the “Assignment Application”), and take all such actions
and give all such notices as may be required or requested by the FCC or as may be
appropriate in any effort to expedite the authorization of such assignment. Until such time

-17-


as the FCC issues a Final Order disposing of the Assignment Application, the University shall
take no action that would jeopardize ENET’s rights under this Agreement. In the event any
person petitions the FCC to deny the Assignment Application or otherwise opposes the
Assignment Application before the FCC, or in the event the FCC enters an order granting the
Assignment Application and any person petitions for reconsideration or review of such order
before the FCC or appeals or applies for review in any judicial proceeding, then ENET and
the University agree to oppose such petition before the FCC or defend such order of the FCC
diligently and in absolute good faith, at ENET’s cost and expense, to the end that the
transactions contemplated by this Agreement may be finally consummated. Notwithstanding
the foregoing sentence, if ENET’s counsel provides a good faith written estimate that the legal
fees associated with opposing any challenge to the Assignment Application or any order
granting the Assignment Application will exceed Fifteen Thousand Dollars ($15,000), ENET
shall notify the University and afford the University a period of five (5S) business days to
agree to share jointly in all reasonable and necessary legal fees in excess of Fifteen Thousand
Dollars ($15,000). The University may elect not to share jointly in such fees without
incurring any liability to ENET hereunder whatsoever. If the University does not notify
ENET within such period that it agrees to provide such funding, ENET shall not be obligated
to expend more than such amount in opposing any challenge to the Assignment Application
or any order granting the Assignment Application and may cease its opposition to the
challenge or its defense of the Assignment Application without lability.

B. Counterparts. This Agreement may be executed in one or more counterparts,
each of which shall be deemed an original, but all of which together shall constitute one and
the same instrument, and shall become effective when each of the parties hereto shall have

duly executed this Agreement.

C. Distance Learning Program. It is the intention of the University to develop a
distance learning program through which the D Group Station will be used to transmit college
courses to students at their residences. ENET shall assist in the development of such program
and shall make its addressing facilities available to the University to control access to distance
leaming programs. In addition, at such time as ENET produces a local program guide for
distribution to its subscribers in the Washington metropolitan area, ENET shall include a
listing of the University’s programming (which may be integrated with the listings of other
educational programming), provided that the University shall provide ENET with its program
schedule sufficiently in advance so as to permit inclusion in the program guide without
alteration in ENET’s production schedule for such guide.

D. Entire Agreement. This Agreement states the entire agreement as of this date
between the parties with respect to the subject matter and supersedes all pre-existing oral or
written agreements or commitments with respect thereto. This Agreement may be modified
only by an agreement in writing executed by all of the parties.

-18-



E. Executory Agreement. Both parties acknowledge this Agreement is executory
in nature, requiring the continuing performance of obligations by each party to the other.

F. Force Majeure. Notwithstanding anything contained in this Agreement to the
contrary, neither party shall be liable to the other for failure to perform any obligation under
this Agreement (nor shall any charges or payments be made in respect thereof) if prevented
from doing so by reason of fires, strikes, labor unrest, embargoes, civil commotion, rationing,
or other orders or requirements, acts of civil or military authorities, acts of God or other
contingencies beyond the reasonable control of the parties, and all requirements as to notice
and other performance required hereunder within a specified period shall be automatically
extended to accommodate the period of dependency of any such contingency which shall
interfere with such performance.

G. Further Action. From time to time after the date of execution, the parties shall
utilize their best efforts to take such further action and execute such further documents,
assurances and certificates as either party may reasonably request of the other in order to
effectuate the purpose of this Agreement. In addition, each party agrees that it will not take
any action which would adversely affect the rights granted by it to the other party hereunder.

H. Governing Law. This Agreement shall be governed by, and construed and
enforced in accordance with the Communications Act of 1934, as amended, the FCC’s Rules
and the laws of the District of Columbia.

I. Headings. The headings herein are inserted for convenience only and shall not
constitute a part hereof.

J. Int tation. In the event that this agreement requires interpretation or
construction, this agreement shall not be interpreted or construed more strictly against any one
party by reason of any rule of interpretation or construction under which a document is to be
construed more strictly against the drafting party.

K. Jurisdiction and Venue. In the event of any dispute between the parties
regarding the rights and obligations of any party hereunder, any party shall have the right to
sue the other party in District of Columbia courts. For any and all such purposes, the parties
hereto hereby irrevocably submit to the jurisdiction of such courts, waive all objections
thereto (on the grounds of improper venue, forum non conveniens or otherwise), and agree
that service of process upon each as provided in the section concerning Notices herein shall
be effective to establish personal jurisdiction over it in such courts.

L. Notices. Except as set forth above concerning the payment of Royalties, all
notices and documentation given under this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be
deemed given the first weekday (excluding Federal holidays) after being sent by United States

-19-


Express Mail, retum receipt requested, or by Federal Express, signature required, to the other
party at the following address:

If to ENET:

Eastern Cable Networks Corp.
700 Canal Street, Third Floor
Stamford, CT 06902
Attn: Rick Perrone

With a copy to:

Paul J. Sinderbrand, Esq.
Sinderbrand & Alexander
888 Sixteenth Street, N.W.
Fifth Floor

Washington, DC 20006-4103

If to the University:

Mr. Ted Christensen

Assistant Vice President for GW Television
801 22nd Street, N.W., Suite T-306
Washington, DC 20052

or to such other address as any written notice to the other party designates.

M. Option. If at any time during the term hereof the University’s existing lease
of the transmission capacity of channel D2 for data services shall terminate or expire, the
University shall provide ENET notice within ten (10) days. ENET shall have the exclusive
tight to lease the capacity of channel D2 for the duration of this Agreement, which option
ENET may exercise by providing the University with notice within twenty one (21) days of
receiving notice of the availability of such channel. Should ENET exercise its option
hereunder, channel D2 shall be added to ENET Capacity and ENET shall thereafter pay an
additional monthly royalty equal to the greater of Two Thousand Five Hundred Dollars
($2,500) or Ten Cents ($.10) per each subscriber to ENET’s wireless cable service.

N. Reimbursement of Expenses. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary

contained herein, ENET shall reimburse the University for all reasonable costs and expenses
incurred by the University in negotiating this Agreement (including reasonable legal and
engineering fees not to exceed $15,000.00), operating and maintaining the D Group Station,
the STL Link and the PTP Link, and otherwise complying with the terms of this Agreement.

- 20 -



Reimbursement for a reimbursable expense shall be made by ENET within thirty (30) days
of receiving an appropriate invoice from the University and such supporting documentation
as ENET reasonably requires in order to establish that the University is entitled to
reimbursement of such expense hereunder.

O. Relationship of Parties. The University and ENET by the provisions of this
Agreement will enter into an airtime use relationship and not a joint venture and both parties
will carry out this Agreement to preserve that intent. Neither party shall present itself as the
other party, nor as having any relationship with one another, except as set forth under the

terms of this Agreement.

P. Reformation.
L. If Congress, the FCC, any court or any other governmental authority

with jurisdiction over the subject matter hereof should amend, interpret or clarify the law,
rules, regulations or policies applicable to this Agreement in a manner that would adversely
affect the ability of the parties to perform their obligations under this Agreement, then the
parties hereto shall promptly negotiate in good faith to reform and amend this Agreement so
as to permit as nearly as reasonably possible the performance of their obligations hereunder.
Neither party shall take any action that contributes to such adverse amendment, clarification

or interpretation without the prior written consent of the other party.

2. The parties acknowledge pursuant to Paragraph 29 of the FCC’s Report
and Order, MM Docket No. 93-106 (rel. July 9, 1994) that the allocation of the capacity of
the D Group Station is subject to future changes in the FCC’s rule governing the leasing of
excess ITFS capacity.

Q. Rights of ENET Subordinate. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary

contained herein, ENET expressly recognizes that the University previously has granted rights
to Hybrid to utilize certain capacity on channel D2, pursuant to the Hybrid Agreement, and
that the obligation of the University to take any action required hereunder shall be read to
conform to such other obligations that the University may owe to Hybrid under the Hybrid
Agreement. The University shall use its best efforts to negotiate with Hybrid and ENET to
resolve any conflicts between the two agreements, provided, however, that no action shall be
taken hereunder if the effect of such action, in the reasonable judgment of the University after
consultation with Hybrid, would have an adverse effect on the rights of Hybrid under the

Hybrid Agreement.

R. Time_of Essence. Whenever this Agreement shall set forth any time for the
performance of an act, such time shall be deemed of the essence.

~21-



S. Waiver. The express or implied waiver by either party of any breach of any
representation Or warranty or any failure to fulfill any condition, covenant or other obligation
or liability under this Agreement shall not constitute a waiver of any other representation or
warranty or of any other failure in the future or in the past by the other party to fulfill such
representation, warranty, condition, covenant, obligation or liability hereunder.

T. Word Meanings. As used in this Agreement, the term “including” shall be
deemed to mean “including, without limitation.” All pronouns and any variations therefore
shall be deemed to refer to the masculine, feminine, neuter, singular or plural as the context
may require. A “Final Order” means a written action or order issued by the FCC: (a) which
has not been reversed, stayed, enjoined, set aside, annulled or suspended; and (b) with respect
to which (i) no requests have been filed for administrative or judicial review, reconsideration,
appeal or stay and the time for filing any such requests, and the time for the FCC to set aside
the action on its own motion, has expired, or (ii) in the event of review, reconsideration or
appeal, the action or order has been affirmed and the time for further review, reconsideration

or appeal has expired.

~

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Agreement as of the date
first above written.

THE GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY

i

An An Offiker |

EASTERN CABLE NETWORKS CORP.

I Stice

@:\docs\easOl\de\gwu.k5

- 22 -


SCHEDULE A

REPRESENTATIVE PROGRAMMING SERVICE

The following are representative types of programming that Eastern intends to transmit
over the leased channels, pursuant to Subparagraph 3 (C).

Home Box Office

Cinemax

Showtime

The Movie Channel

American Movie Classics

Bravo

Black Entertainment Network

MTV .
USA

TNT

W WOR

WGN

CNN

CNN Headline News

CNBC

WTBS

Arts & Entertainment

ESPN

Nickelodeon

Family Channel

Nashville Network

Weather Channel

Disney Channel

Learning Channel

Lifetime Channel .
Programming from broadcast television stations licensed to operate in the United
States or Canada

Digital Radio

Sega Channel

-23-


Ri

R2

R3

R4

R5

R6

R7

R8

R9

R10

Ril

LICENSED ITFS RECEIVE SITES

SCHEDULE B

Omitted

Computer Science Corp.

8728 Colesville Road

Silver Spring, MD 20910

38-59~-55N 77-01-39W EL:350’ + Building @ 50’

National Security Agency
9800 Savage Road

Ft. Meade, MD 20755


Intelsat
3400 International Drive, NW
Washington, DC 20008 .

38-56-32N 77-03-51W EL:310’ + Building @ 40’

Pyramid Video

14th & F Streets, NW

Washington, DC 20045

38-53-48N 77-01-54W Building 100+?

Omitted

GWU ~ Rice Hall

2121 I Street, NW
Washington, DC 20052


GWU-TV

801 - 22nd Street, NW
Washington, DC 20052
38-54-O1N 77-02-55W EL:157/

Naval Research Laboratory #1

4555 Overlook Ave., SW °
Washington, DC 20375

38-49-23N 77-01-O06W EL:60%

Omitted

Office of Navy Civ. Pers. Mgt. and Mine
Safety Offices

4015 Wilson Blvd.

Arlington, VA 22203

38-52~48N 77-06-30W EL:270% + 130’



Licensed ITFS Receive Sites

Page 2

R12

R13

R14

R15

R16

R17

R18

R19

Schedule B

Media General

4600 West Ox Road

Fairfax, VA 22030

38-S1L-1LIN 77-22-28W EL:430' + 146’ tower

Mitre Corporation

1820 Dolley Madison Blvd.
McLean, VA 22102



Omitted

Watkins-Johnson Company
700 Quince Orchard Road
Gaithersburg, MD 20502
39-08-34N 77-13-33W EL:500°

National Institutes of Health

9000 Rockville Pike #1

Rockville, MD

38-59-53N 77-06-18W EL:318’ + 174’

Naval Research Laboratory #2
4555 Overlook Avenue, SW
Washington, DC 20375
38-49-23N 77~-01-19W

Antenna side-mounted on existing tower at 70%
lev. + EL:277

Palmer Park Media Center
8437 Landover Road
Landover, MD 20785


Antenna side-mounted on new 49’ guyed mast
above building roof level. EL:202’ + 22’ +

49?
Notification has been submitted to FAA

GWU - No. Virginia Campus
20101 Academic Way

Ashburn, VA 22011
39-03-44N 77-26-44W EL:360% + 50’ Building


Licensed ITFS Receive Sites

Page 3

R20

R21

R22

R23

R24

R25

R26

R27

R28

The American University
Mass. & Neb. Aves., NW
Washington, DC 20016
38-56-11N 77-05-33W EL:365’

The University of Maryland
Hornbake Library

College Park, MD 20742
38-59-17N 76-56-31W EL:471?

Schedule B

+ 20°

+ 4th Floor

University of The District of Columbia

4200 Connecticut Ave., NW
Washington, DC 20008
38~56-37N 77-03-59W EL:290?

The Catholic University of America

620 Michigan Avenue, NE
Washington, DC 20064
38-56-05N 76-59-58W EL:160’

Trinity College

125 Michigan Ave., NE
Washington, DC 20017
38-55-37N 77-Q0-16W EL:180’

Howard University

2400 6th Street, NW
Washington, DC 20059
38-55-14N 77-01-11W EL:120%
50’ tower

Gallaudet University
800 Florida Ave., NE
Washington, DC 20002

+ 30°

+ 30°

+ 4th Floor +

38-54-36N 76-59-26W EL:130’ + 30’ Building

Georgetown University

204 Healy Building

37th and Oo St., NW
Washington, DC 20057
38-54-22N 77-04-20W EL:120’

Mount Vernon College

2100 Foxhalli Road, NW
Washington, DC 20007
38-55-O0O5N 77-05-22W EL:275%

+ 40%

+ 50°



Licensed ITFS Receive Sites

Page 4

R29

R30

R31

R32

R33

R34

R35

R36

Marymount University

2807 North Glebe Road

Arlington, VA 22207

38-54-23N 77-07-44W EL:410’% + 9017

George Mason University

4400 University Drive

Fairfax, VA 22030

38-49-51N 77-18-25W EL:440% + 6157

David Taylor Research Center DTNET
Building 17W Carderock Lab
Bethesda, MD 20084-5000

Schedule B

Tower

38-58~-25N 77-11-26W EL:170° .

George Geesey Residence

GW Television Chief Eng.
3612 Faircastle Drive

Chevy Chase, MD 20815
39-00-18N 77-04-25W EL:370’

GWU-Crystal City Ed Center
Buidling H

2231 Crystal Drive
Arlington, VA 22202


Fairfax County School Media Center
VIA Media General Cable

2917 Eskridge Road

Fairfax, VA 22031

38-52~22N 77-13-52W EL:580’

Defense Language Institute
Suite 507

1111 Jefferson Davis Hwy
Arlington, VA 22202
38-51~-40N 77-03-G3W EL:907

DC Schools Gordon Center
Room 302

35th and T Streets, NW
Washington, DC 20007
38-54-56N 77-04-08W EL:285%



Licensed ITFS Receive Sites

Page 5

R37

R38

R39

R40

R41

R42

R43

The World Bank

801 19th Street, NW
Washington, DC 20433


The Brookings Institute

1775 Mass. Ave., NW
Washington, DC 20036
38-54-29N 77~-02-25W EL:140%

Mont. County School Board of
850 Hungerford Drive
Rockville, MD 20850
39-05-42N 77-09-27W EL:480°%

U.S. Geological Survey

12201 Sunrise Valley Drive
Reston, VA 22092

38-56-50N 77-22-04W EL:510’

Johns Hopkins Un. SAIS

Room 330

1619 Mass. Avenue, NW
Washington, DC 20783
38-54~28N 77-02-16W EL:165’

WNVC-TV

8101A Lee Highway

Falls Church, VA 22042
38-52-28N 77-13-24W EL:535%

FBI Buzzard Point

1900 Half Street, SW
Washington, DC 20535


Schedule B

Education