




                   Exhibit 1





                    BROKER-DEALER AGREEMENT


                          Dated May 12, 2004



                                among


             WELLS FARGO BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION,
                          as Auction Agent

                                 and

                       GOLDMAN, SACHS & CO.

                                 and

                PRESBYTERIAN HEALTHCARE SERVICES


                              relating to

                             $147,485,000

          NEW MEXICO HOSPITAL EQUIPMENT LOAN COUNCIL
                 HOSPlT AL SYSTEM REVENUE BONDS
              (PRESBYTERIAN HEALTHCARE SERVICES)
                SERIES 2004A, 2004B, 2004C AND 2004D





                             BROKER-DEALER AGREEMENT

       THIS BROKER-DEALER AGREEMENT, dated May 12, 2004 (the "Broker-Dealer
Agreement"), among (i) WELLS FARGO BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, a national
banking association organized and existing under the laws of the United States of America (the
"Auction Agent"), not in its individual capacity but solely as agent of WELLS FARGO BANK,
NATIONAL ASSOCIATION (the "Tmstee"), pursuant to authority granted to the Auction
Agent in the Auction Agreement, dated May 12, 2004 (the "Auction Agreement"), between the
Trustee and the Auction Agent and acknowledged by the Company, as hereinafter defined;
(ii) GOLDMAN, SACHS & CO., a New York partnership ("BD"); and (iii) PRESBYTERIAN
HEALTHCARE SERVICES, a New Mexico nonprofit corporation (the "Company");

                                       WITNESSETH

       WHEREAS, the New Mexico Hospital Equipment Loan Council (the "Issuer") is issuing
$38,695,000 aggregate principal amount of its Hospital System Revenue Bonds (Presbyterian
Healthcare Services), Series 2004A (the "Series 2004A Bonds"), $38,665,000 aggregate
principal amount of its Hospital System Revenue Bonds (Presbyterian Healthcare Services),
Series 2004B (the "Series 2004B Bonds"), $44,405,000 aggregate principal amount of its
Hospital System Revenue Bonds (Presbyterian Healthcare Services), Series 2004C (the "Series
2004C Bonds") and $25,720,000 aggregate principal amount of its Hospital System Revenue
Bonds (Presbyterian Healthcare Services), Series 2004D (the "Series 2004D Bonds" and,
together with the Series 2004A Bonds, the Series 2004B Bonds and the Series 2004C Bonds, the
"Series 2004 Bonds"), being sometimes referred to together herein as the "Series 2004 Auction
Bonds"; and

       WHEREAS, BD is to perform certain duties set forth herein; and

        WHEREAS, the Trust Indenture dated as of May I, 2004 authorizing the issuance of the
Series 2004 Auction Bonds (the "Indenture") provides that, except as provided therein, the
interest rate on the Series 2004 Auction Bonds shall be the Auction Rate which shall be, except
as otherwise provided therein, the rate per annum that the Auction Agent determines to have
resulted from the implementation of the Auction Procedures; and

        WHEREAS, Wells Fargo Bank, National Association bas been appointed as Auction
Agent for purposes of the Auction Agreement, and pursuant to Section 2.6(a) of the Auction
Agreement, the Company has requested and directed the Auction Agent to execute and deliver
this Broker-Dealer Agreement; and

       WHEREAS, the Auction Procedures require the participation of one or more Broker-
Dealers;

       NOW, THEREFORE, the Auction Agent, as agent for the Trustee, BD, for the benefit of
the Existing Owners and the Potential Owners of the Series 2004 Auction Bonds, and the
Company agree as follows:





               (e) Each reference to the "purchase," "sale" or "holding" of Series 2004
Auction Bonds shall refer to beneficial ownership interests in Series 2004 Auction Bonds unless
the context clearly requires otherwise.

               (f) Any reference herein to Bonds or Auction Bonds shall be deemed to be
references to each series of Series 2004 Bonds and Series 2004 Auction Bonds. References
herein to an Auction and the Auction Procedures shall apply separately to each series of Series
2004 Auction Bonds.

                1.4 Warranties of BD. BD hereby represents and warrants that this Broker-
Dealer Agreement has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by BD and that, assuming
the due authorization, execution and delivery hereof by the Auction Agent, this Broker-Dealer
Agreement constitutes a valid and binding agreement of BD, enforceable against it in accordance
with its terms.

       SECTION 2. THE AUCTION .

              2.1   Purpose; Incorporation by Reference of Auction Procedures and Settlement
Procedures.

               (a) The Auction Procedures will be followed by the Auction Agent for the
purpose of determining the Auction Rates for each series of the Series 2004 Auction Bonds for
each Auction Period after the Initial Periods for each series of the Series 2004 Auction Bonds.
Each periodic implementation of such procedures is hereinafter refened to as an "Auction."

                (b) All of the provisions contained in the Auction Procedures and the
Settlement Procedures are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety and shall be deemed
to be a part of this Broker-Dealer Agreement to the same extent as if such provisions were fully
set forth herein.

                (c) BD agrees to act as, and assumes the obligations of, and limitations and
restrictions placed upon, a Broker-Dealer under this Broker-Dealer Agreement. BD understands
that other Persons meeting the requirements specified in the definition of "Broker-Dealer"
contained in the Indenture may execute Broker-Dealer Agreements and participate as Broker-
Dealers in Auctions. BD agrees to handle customer orders in accordance with its respective
duties under applicable securities laws and rules.

               (d) BD and other Broker-Dealers may participate in Auctions for their own
accounts. The Company may, however, by notice to BD and all other Broker-Dealers, prohibit
all of the Broker-Dealers from submitting Bids in Auctions for their own accounts, provided that
Broker-Dealers may continue to submit Hold Orders and Sell Orders. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, if BD is an affiliate of the Company it may not submit Bids to purchase Series 2004
Auction Bonds in Auctions for its own account, but may submit Hold Orders and Sell Orders in
Auctions with respect to Series 2004 Auction Bonds otherwise acquired for its own account.
The Auction Agent shall be under no duty or liability with respect to monitoring compliance
with this Section 2.l(d).




                                              - 3-





               2.2   Preparation for Each Auction.

                (a) Not later than 9:30 a.m. on each Auction Date, the Auction Agent shall
advise the Broker-Dealers by telephone or other electronic communication acceptable to the
parties of the All Hold Rate and the Auction Index.

                (b) On the Closing Date and from time to time thereafter as the Auction Agent
shall request, BD shall provide the Auction Agent with a list, substantially in the form of
EXHIBIT E hereto, of the names of its customers that it believes are Existing Owners of Series
2004 Auction Bonds and the principal amount of Series 2004 Auction Bonds held by each of
such customers. The Auction Agent shall not disclose any such information so provided to any
Person other than the Trustee, the Issuer, the Company or BD except as otherwise required by
law; provided, however, that the Auction Agent reserves the right and is authorized to disclose
any such information if (a) it is ordered to do so by a court of competent jurisdiction or a
regulatory, judicial or quasi-judicial agency or authority having the authority to compel such
disclosure, (b) it is advised by its counsel that its failure to do so would be unlawful or (c) failure
to do so would expose the Auction Agent to loss, liability, claim, damage or expense for which it
has not received indemnity satisfactory to it.

               (c) Not later than 3:00p.m. on the Business Day preceding each Auction Date,
the Auction Agent shall notify BD of any change in the aggregate principal amount of Series
2004 Auction Bonds, as of the opening of business on such date by delivering a notice to BD by
telecopy or other electronic communication acceptable to the parties.

               2.3   Auction Schedule; Method ofSubmission of Orders.

               (a) The Auction Agent shall conduct Auctions tor the Series 2004 Auction
Bonds in accordance with the schedule set forth below. Such schedule may be changed at any
time by the Auction Agent at the written direction of the Company to reflect then currently
accepted market practices for similar auctions. The Auction Agent shall give notice of any such
change to BD, the Company and the Trustee, which notice shall be given prior to the close of
business on the Business Day next preceding the first Auction Date on which any such change
shall be effective. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Auction Agent will follow the Bond
Market Association's Market Practice U.S. Holiday Recommendations for shortened trading
days for the bonds markets (the "BMA Recommendation") unless the Auction Agent is
instructed otherwise. In the event of a BMA Recommendation on an Auction Date, the
Submission Deadline will be 11:30 a.m., instead of 1:00 p.m., and as a result the notice set forth
in Section 2.4 will occur earlier.


                      Time                                                Event
By9:30 a.m.                                         Auction Agent advises the Broker-Dealers of
                                                    the All Hold Rate and the Auction Index, as set
                                                    forth in Section 2.2(a).




                                                 - 4-





                      Time                                                Event
9:30 a.m.-1 :00 p.m. (11 :00 a.m. in the case of    Auction Agent assembles information
a daily Auction Period)                             communicated to it by Broker-Dealers as
                                                    provided in Section 202 ofExhibit B of the
                                                    Indenture. Submission Deadline is 1:00 p.m.
                                                    ( 11:00 a.m. in the case of a daily Auction
                                                    Period).
As soon as practical after 1:00 p.m.                 Auction Agent makes determinations pursuant
(by 11 :30 a.m. in the case of a daily               to Section 203(b) of Exhibit B of the Indenture.
Auction Period)
By approximately 3:00p.m. but not later than         Submitted Bids and Submitted Sell Orders are
the close of business (by 12:00 Noon in the          accepted and rejected and Series 2004 Auction
case of a daily Auction Period)                      Bonds allocated as provided in Section 204 of
                                                     Exhibit B of the Indenture. Auction Agent
                                                     gives notice of the Auction results as set forth
                                                     in Section 2.4(a) hereof.

                (b) BD agrees, for the purpose of implementing the Auctions (and thereby
achieving the lowest possible interest rate on the Series 2004 Auction Bonds), to contact
Potential Owners, including Persons that are not Existing Owners, prior to the Submission
Deadline on each Auction Date to determine the principal amount of Series 2004 Auction Bonds,
if any, that each such Potential Owner offers to purchase if the rate determined by the Auction
Procedures for the next succeeding Auction Period is not less than the rate per annum requested
by such Potential Owner. BD further agrees, upon request, to deliver a copy of the Auction
Procedures and other relevant documents prepared for the purpose of disclosure to Potential
Owners by the Issuer and the Company relating to the Series 2004 Auction Bonds to each
Potential Owner prior to such Potential Owner's participation in any Auction.

                (c) In each Auction in which BD submits one or more Orders, BD shall submit
a separate Order to the Auction Agent for each Potential Owner or Existing Owner on whose
behalf BD is submitting an Order and shall not net the Orders of different Potential Owners or
Existing Owners on whose behalf BD is submitting Orders. Each Order shall be in writing in
substantially the form attached hereto as EXHIBIT Borin such other form as may be reasonably
acceptable to the Auction Agent.

               (d) BD shall deliver to the Auction Agent (i) a written notice, substantially in
the form attached hereto as EXHIBIT C of transfers of Series 2004 Auction Bonds made through
BD by an Existing Owner to another Person other than pursuant to an Auction, and (ii) a written
notice, substantially in the form attached hereto as EXHIBIT D of the failure of any Series 2004
Auction Bonds to be transferred to or by any Person that purchased or sold Series 2004 Auction
Bonds through BD pursuant to an Auction. The Auction Agent is not required to accept any
such notice specified in this Subsection (d) for an Auction if it is received by it after 3:00p.m. on
the Business Day preceding such Auction.



                                                   -5-





               2.4   Notices.

               (a) On each Auction Date, the Auction Agent shall notify BD by telephone or
other electronic communication acceptable to the parties of the results of the Auction as set forth
in paragraph (a) of the Settlement Procedures. As soon as reasonably practicable thereafter, the
Auction Agent shall notify BD, if so requested, in writing of the disposition of all Orders
submitted by BD in the Auction held on such Auction Date.

                (b) The Auction Agent shall notify BD of any change in the Auction schedule
set forth in Section 2.3(a) hereof.

               (c) BD shall notify each Existing Owner or Potential Owner on whose behalf
BD has submitted an Order as set forth in paragraph (b) of the Settlement Procedures, and take
such other action as is required of BD pursuant to the Settlement Procedures.

               (d) The Auction Agent shall deliver to BD after receipt all notices and
certificates which the Auction Agent is required to deliver to BD pursuant to Section 2 of the
Auction Agreement at the times and in the manner set forth in the Auction Agreement.

               2.5   Compensation.

               (a) The initial Broker-Dealer Fee Rate shall equal .25 of 1% per annum as
calculated below. The Broker-Dealer Fee for the Series 2004 Auction Bonds shall be paid by the
Company to the Auction Agent for the benefit of the Broker-Dealer and represents compensation
for the services of the Broker-Dealer in facilitating Auctions for the benefit of the beneficial
owners of the Series 2004 Auction Bonds. The Broker-Dealer Fee Rate may be adjusted from
time to time with the approval of the Company upon a written request of the Broker-Dealer
delivered to the Company.

                (b) While the Series 2004 Auction Bonds are in an Auction Period other than a
daily Auction Period, on each Interest Payment Date following each Auction Date, each Broker-
Dealer shall be entitled to receive an amount equal to the product of (x) the Broker-Dealer Fee
Rate multiplied by (y)(A) if an Auction was held on such Auction Date, the sum of the aggregate
principal amount of Series 2004 Auction Bonds that were (1) the subject of a valid Hold Order of
an Existing Owner submitted by such Broker-Dealer, (2) the subject of a Submitted Bid of an
Existing Owner submitted by such Broker-Dealer and continued to be held by such Existing
Owner as a result of such Auction, (3) the subject of a Submitted Bid of a Potential Owner
submitted by such Broker-Dealer and were purchased by such Potential Owner as a result of
such Auction and (4) deemed to be the subject of a Hold Order by an Existing Owner that were
acquired by such Existing Owner from such Broker-Dealer or (B) if an Auction was not held on
such Auction Date, the aggregate principal amount of Outstanding Series 2004 Auction Bonds
that were acquired by an Existing Owner through such Broker-Dealer, multiplied by (z) a
fraction, the numerator of which is (i) if the Auction Period is seven days, 28 days, 35 days, three
months or a Special Auction Period of 180 days or less, the actual number of days in the Auction
Period next succeeding such Auction Date or (ii) if the Auction Period is six months or a Special
Auction Period of more than 180 days, the number of days in the Auction Period next succeeding




                                               -6-





such Auction Date calculated on the basis of twelve 30 day months in a year, and in either case
the denominator of which is 360.

                     If the Series 2004 Auction Bonds are in a daily Auction Period each Broker-
Dealer shall be entitled to receive on each Interest Payment Date an amount equal to the sum
calculated for each Auction Period in the preceding month of the product of (x) the Broker-
Dealer Fee Rate multiplied by (y) the aggregate principal amount of Series 2004 Auction Bonds
for each Auction Period that were (I) the subject of a valid Hold Order submitted by such
Broker-Dealer, (2) the subject of a Submitted Bid of an Existing Owner submitted by such
Broker-Dealer and continued to be held by such Existing Owner as a result of such Auction, (3)
the subject of a Submitted Bid of a Potential Owner submitted by such Broker-Dealer and were
purchased by such Potential Owner as a result of such Auction, (4) deemed to be the subject of a
Hold Order by an Existing Owner that were acquired by such Existing Owner from such Broker-
Dealer and (5) if an Auction was not held for any Auction Period, the aggregate principal amount
of Outstanding Series 2004 Auction Bonds that were acquired by an Existing Owner through
such Broker-Dealer, multiplied by (z) a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of days in
the Auction Period and denominator of which is 360.

                     The Broker-Dealer Fee shall be calculated by the Auction Agent, which
shall be conclusive absent manifest error. Such amounts shall be communicated by the Auction
Agent to the Company by 4:00 p.m. on the Business Day immediately preceding each Interest
Payment Date. On or before 10:00 a.m. on each Interest Payment Date, the Company shall pay
to the Auction Agent the amount due to the Broker-Dealer, by wire transfer of immediately
available funds to such account as the Auction Agent may designate. The amount constituting
the Broker-Dealer Fee shall be held by the Auction Agent on behalf of the Broker-Dealer and,
immediately upon receipt of such Fee, the Auction Agent shall deliver such Fee to the Broker-
Dealer pursuant to the written instructions of the Broker-Dealer. If any Existing Owner who
acquired Series 2004 Auction Bonds through a Broker-Dealer transfers any such Series 2004
Auction Bonds to another Person other than through an Auction, the Broker-Dealer for the Series
2004 Auction Bonds so transferred shall continue to be the Broker-Dealer with respect to such
Series 2004 Auction Bonds; provided, however, that if the transfer was effected by, or if the
transferee is, another Person who has met the requirements specified in the defmition of"Broker-
Dealer" contained in the Series 2004 Auction Bonds and executed a Broker-Dealer Agreement,
such Person shall be the Broker-Dealer for such Series 2004 Auction Bonds.

               The Bond Insurer shall have the right to pay the Broker-Dealer fee if such fee is
not paid by the Company as provided in this Section.

              2.6   Settlement.

               (a) If any Potential Owner on whose behalf BD has submitted an Order fails to
deliver funds with respect to any Auction, BD shall promptly deliver such funds to the party
entitled to receive such funds. If any Existing Owner on whose behalf BD has submitted an
Order fails to instruct its Agent Member to deliver Series 2004 Auction Bonds subject to such
Order against payment therefor, BD shall instruct such Agent Member to deliver such Series
2004 Auction Bonds against payment therefor. The delivery of funds by BD for the purchase of
Series 2004 Auction Bonds by a Potential Owner, as provided above, shall not relieve such


                                              - 7-





Potential Owner of any liability to BD for payment for such Series 2004 Auction Bonds.
Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 2.6(a), any delivery or nondelivery of
Series 2004 Auction Bonds which represents any departure from the results of an Auction, as
determined by the Auction Agent, shall be of no effect unless and until the Auction Agent shall
have been notified of such delivery or non-delivery in accordance with the terms of Section
2.3(d) hereof. The Auction Agent shall have no duty or liability with respect to enforcement of
this Section 2.6(a).

               (b) The Auction Agent, the Trustee, the Company and the Issuer shall have no
responsibility or liability with respect to the failure of an Existing Owner, a Potential Owner or
its respective Agent Member to deliver Series 2004 Auction Bonds or to pay for Series 2004
Auction Bonds sold or purchased pursuant to the Auction Procedures or otherwise.

       SECTION 3. THE AUCTION AGENT.

               3.1   Duties and Responsibilities of the Auction Agent.

                (a) The Auction Agent is acting solely as agent of the Trustee and owes no
duties, fiduciary or otherwise, to any other Person by reason of this Broker-Dealer Agreement or
in the Auction Agreement, and no implied duties, fiduciary or otherwise, shall be read into this
Broker-Dealer Agreement against the Auction Agent

                (b) The Auction Agent undertakes to perform such duties and only such duties
as are expressly set forth herein, or expressly incorporated herein by reference pursuant to
Section 2.1(b) hereof, to be performed by it, and no implied covenants or obligations shall be
read into this Broker-Dealer Agreement against the Auction Agent.

                (c) In the absence of negligence or misconduct on its part, the Auction Agent,
whether acting directly or through agents or attorneys as provided in Section 3.2(d) hereof, shall
not be liable for any action taken, suffered, or omitted or for any error of judgment made by it in
the performance of its duties hereunder. The Auction Agent shall not be liable for any error of
judgment made in good faith unless the Auction Agent shall have been negligent in ascertaining
the pertinent facts necessary to make such judgment.

               (d) The Auction Agent shall not be: (i) required to and does not make any
representations nor have any responsibilities as to the validity, accuracy, value or genuineness of
any signatures or endorsements, other than its own on any document delivered pursuant to or as
contemplated by this Broker-Dealer Agreement; (ii) obligated to take any legal action hereunder
that might, in its judgment, involve any expense or liability, unless it has been furnished with
indemnity satisfactory to the Auction Agent; and (iii) responsible for or liable in any respect on
account of the identity, authority or rights of any Person executing or delivering or purporting to
execute or deliver any document under this Broker-Dealer Agreement.

                (e) The Auction Agent shall not be responsible or liable for any failure or delay
in the performance of its obligations under this Broker-Dealer Agreement arising out of or
caused, directly or indirectly, by circumstances beyond its reasonable control, including without
limitation: acts of God; earthquakes; fires; floods; wars; civil or military disturbances; sabotage;
epidemics; riots; interruptions, loss or malfunctions of utilities or communications serv1ce;


                                               - 8-





If to the Company addressed:          PRESBYTERIAN HEALTHCARE SERVICES
                                      P.O. Box 26666
                                      Albuquerque, New Mexico 87125-6666
                                      Attention: Senior Vice President - Finance
                                      Telecopier No.: (505) 923-8558
                                      Telephone No.: (505) 923-6300
                                      E-mail: lalhand@phs.org

If to the Issuer addressed:           HOSPITAL SERVICES CORPORATION
                                      2121 Osuna N.E.
                                      Albuquerque, New Mexico 87199
                                      Attention: President
                                      Telecopier No.: (505) 343-0068
                                      Telephone No. : (505) 343-0070
                                      E-mail: dgorenz@nmhsc.com

or such other address, telecopy number or e-mail address, if any, as such party may hereafter
specify for such purpose by notice to the other party. Each such notice, request or
communication shall be effective (i) if given by telecopier, when such telecopy is transmitted to
the telecopy number specified herein or (ii) if given by any other means, when delivered at the
address specified herein. Communications shall be given on behalf of BD by a BD Officer and
on behalf of the Auction Agent by an Authorized Officer.

               5.4 Entire Agreement.          This Broker-Dealer Agreement, and the other
agreements and instruments executed and delivered in connection with the issuance of the Series
2004 Auction Bonds, contain the entire agreement between the parties relating to the subject
matter hereof, and there are no other representations, endorsements, promises, agreements or
understandings, oral, written or inferred, between the parties relating to the subject matter hereof.

               5.5 Benefits; Successors and Assigns. This Broker-Dealer Agreement shall be
binding upon, inure to the benefit of, and be enforceable by, the respective successors and
assigns of BD, the Bond Insurer and the Auction Agent. Nothing in this Broker-Dealer
Agreement, express or implied, shall give to any Person, other than the Auction Agent, the Bond
Insurer and BD and their respective successors and assigns, any benefit of any legal or equitable
right, remedy or claim under this Broker-Dealer Agreement, other than the rights expressly
granted to the Issuer herein. The Bond Insurer shall be a third-party beneficiary of this Broker-
Dealer Agreement. This Broker-Dealer Agreement shall not be assigned without the consent of
the Bond Insurer.

                5.6   Amendment; Waiver.

                (a) This Broker-Dealer Agreement shall not be deemed or construed to be
modified, amended, rescinded, canceled or waived, in whole or in part, except by a written
instrument signed by a duly authorized representative of each of the parties hereto and consented
to in writing by a duly authorized officer of the Issuer and the Bond Insurer.




                                               - 13-





                (b) Failure of any party to this Broker-Dealer Agreement to exercise any right
or remedy hereunder in the event of a breach of this Broker-Dealer Agreement by any other party
shall not constitute a waiver of any such right or remedy with respect to any subsequent breach.

               5.7 Severability. If any clause, provision or section of this Broker-Dealer
Agreement shall be ruled invalid or unenforceable by any court of competent jurisdiction, the
invalidity or unenforceability of such clause, provision or section shall not affect any of the
remaining clauses, provisions or sections hereof.

                5.8 Execution in Counterparts.    This Broker-Dealer Agreement may be
executed in several counterparts, each of which shall be an original and all of which shall
constitute but one and the same instrument.

                5.9 Governing Law; Jurisdiction; Waiver of Trial by Jury. This Broker-Dealer
Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New
York (including, without limitation, Section 5-1401 of the New York General Obligations Law
or any successor to such statute). The parties agree that all actions and proceedings arising out of
this Broker-Dealer Agreement or any of the transactions contemplated hereby shall be brought in
the United States District Court in the County ofNew York and that, in connection with any such
action or proceeding, submit to the jurisdiction of, and venue in, such court. Each of the parties
hereto also irrevocably waives all right to trial by jury in any action, proceeding or counterclaim
arising out of this Broker-Dealer Agreement or the transactions contemplated hereby.

               5.10 No Implied Duties. Nothing contained in this Broker-Dealer Agreement, the
Indenture or the Auction Agreement shall be deemed to imply any duties, covenants or
obligations on the part of the Company not otherwise expressly set forth herein or therein.




                                               - 14-





       IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Broker-Dealer Agreement
to be duly executed and delivered by their proper and duly authorized officers as of the date first
above written.

                                                 WELLS FARGO BANK, NATIONAL
                                                 ASSOCIATION, as Auction Agent

                                                             ,.;;      -      I

                                                 By: -          ,~/_..
                                                          / tji,.
                                                    Authorized Signatory




                                                 GOLDMAN, SACHS & CO.




                                                                     HEALTHCARE SERVICES




                                              - 15 -