REAL ESTATE OPTION AGREEMENT

This Real Estate Option Agreement is made and entered into the ist
day of August 2006 (‘Effective Date”), by and between 1200 6" Street
LLC,("Optionor”), a Limited Liability Company, whose address is 16630
Southfield Road, Allen Park, Michigan, 48101 and the United States of
America, acting by and through the U.S. General Services
Administration (‘Optionee”) whose address is 230 S. Dearborn Street, Suite
3600, Chicago, Illinois, 60604.

WHEREAS, the Optionee desires to locate certain Federal facilities for
office space containing approximately 266,200 square feet of rentable space with
onsite parking facilities within the City of Detroit; and

WHEREAS, the Optionee has determined that the most efficient manner to
establish the location of these Federal facilities is to identify a parcel of real
property appropriate for the unique requirements of these facilities, and then to
proceed to conduct a lease procurement for the construction and leasehold of
these Federal facilities on such parcel of real property; and

WHEREAS, the Optionor desires the Optionee to locate these Federal
facilities upon certain real property owned by the Optionor, and the Optionee has
determined such real property owned by the Optionor to be the most
advantageous site for location of these Federal facilities, all factors considered;
and

WHEREAS, Optionee requires a no-cost assignable option to purchase this
certain real property in order to proceed with its plans to implement its lease
procurement process:

NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the above recitals, the mutual
obligations of the parties hereto, TEN AND NO/100 DOLLARS ($10.00) and
other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are
hereby acknowledged, the parties agree as follows:

1. Grant of Option. The Optionor hereby grants to the Optionee the exclusive
and irrevocable option (‘Option’) to purchase certain real property situated in
the City of Detroit, County of Wayne, State of Michigan containing approximately
10.89 acres which is commonly known as 1200 6" Street (“Property”) and is
more particularly described in the Agreement for Purchase and Sale of Real
Property which is attached hereto and made a part hereof as Exhibit 1,
together with all improvements, easements, and appurtenances to the Property
for the price and within the time specified in this Option. This Option shall be



fully assignable at any time prior to closing to Optionee’s developer
(“Developer”).

2. Term of Option. This Option shall continue in effect for a period of not less
than one (1) year from the Effective Date of this Option and may be exercised in
accordance with its terms at any time on or before its expiration inclusive of any
extension period provided for herein, by serving written notice on the Optionor in
the manner prescribed in Section 20. The giving of such notice shall result in
Exhibit 1 becoming a binding contract of purchase and sale between the parties,
effective on the date of the receipt of notice of exercise of this Option as
provided in Section 20. This Option may be extended at the election of Optionee
for an additional thirty (30) days by giving notice as provided in Section 20 of
this Option.

3. Purchase Price. The total purchase price for the Property shall be $9,000,000
(Nine Million Dollars), hereinafter the “Purchase Price". At the closing on the
Property (“Closing”), the sum of $8,000,000 (Eight Million Dollars) shall be due
and payable plus or minus any standard deductions and prorations (Customary
closing expenses incurred by the Optionor inclusive of utility and real estate tax
prorations). The remaining balance less any deductions identified below shall be
paid at a rate of 10% of the annual tax incremental financing reimbursement
received by Developer. For example, the anticipated annual Tax Incremental
Financing [TIF] amount is approximately $2,000,000, of which an estimated
$200,000 shall be paid to Optionor annually, and shall become due and payable
within thirty (30) days of receipt of same until the remaining $1,000,000 (or
less, dependent upon deductions as described below) are received (‘Outstanding
Balance”). The Outstanding Balance shall accrue interest to the same extent, if
any, that either the City of Detroit or the State of Michigan pay interest to the
Developer on the outstanding incurred eligible expenses and which shall be paid
in accordance with Exhibit 1. In the event the sale is consummated, and subject
to repayment of the Outstanding Balance owed to Optionor (less any deductions)
the tax incrementa! reimbursement shall belong to the Developer.

4. Conveyance. Upon payment of the Purchase Price, less the Outstanding
Balance, Optionor shall convey good and marketable indefeasible fee simple title
to the Property to the Developer by warranty deed, free and clear of all liens and
encumbrances whatsoever, subject only to those items (‘Permitted Exceptions”)
set forth in Exhibit 1, and subject to any standard deductions, prorations and or
adjustments as provided for herein.

5. Survey. No later than thirty (30) days after the effective date of this Option,
the Optionor shall deliver to Optionee, at Optionor’s expense, a topographical
metes and bounds land title survey of the Property in accordance with the 2005
Minimum Standard Detail Requirements for ALTA/ACSM Land Title Surveys
including such Table A items as Optionee may elect, the same shall be attached


hereto and made a part hereof as Exhibit 2. Optionor shall provide Optionee an
updated topographical boundary survey of the Property which shall reflect the
City of Detroit’s final approved plat of vacation and or dedication of right of way
necessary to affect the Optionee’s desired street closures by December 31, 2006.
Additionally, the updated topographical boundary survey shall describe all of the
immediate contiguous properties created as a result of vacating Sixth Street and
Abbott Street for the purpose of combining the Property as a single metes and
bounds legal description that shall be identified as one (1) tax parcel. The
surveyor’s certificate shall be certified to the Developer’s title company so that
the Owner’s Title Insurance Policy for the Property that will be obtained by the
Developer at closing will contain a survey endorsement based on the final
topographical boundary survey and plat.

6 Title Insurance. No later than thirty (30) days after the effective date of this
Option, the Optionor shall deliver to Optionee, at Optionor’s expense, a
Preliminary Title Commitment for an Owner’s Title Insurance Policy to issue to
Optionee or its Assignee, at or as soon as possible after Closing, its ALTA Form B
Owner's title insurance policy, without standard exceptions, in the amount of the
purchase price, insuring title to the Property to be in good and marketable
condition, free and clear of any liens and encumbrances. Seller shall furnish
Purchaser with the aforesaid title commitment and legible copies of all items
shown in such commitment as soon as possible, but in no event later than thirty
(30) days following the Effective Date.

If the title is not in the condition required hereunder, Optionee shall notify
Optionor in writing of such defect(s) within twenty-one (21) days after receipt of
the title insurance commitment and copies of all items shown therein. In the
event Optionor is unable or unwilling to cure such defects within twenty-one (21)
days after receipt of such notice, Optionee shall have the option of either (1)
waiving such defect(s) and proceeding with the closing; (2) allow Optionor to
attempt to resolve the exceptions and encumbrances objected by Optionee,
during the term of the Option, such as in the case of those encumbrances which
will require the action of the City of Detroit; or (3) if the defect can be cured by
the payment of dollars, deducting the amount required to cure such defect from
the purchase price and the proceeds due Optionor at Closing or, at Optionor's
discretion, the obtaining by Optionor of a surety bond over such lien or title
defect. Those title conditions not objected to by Optionee pursuant to this .
paragraph or accepted by Optionee are hereinafter called “Permitted
Exceptions.”

7, Optionor’s Representations. Optionor represents that:

(a) It is the record owner of the Property and has the requisite power and
authority to enter into and fully carry out this Option and the sale of the Property
contemplated herein.


(b) It has no knowledge of any reason why the local governmental
authorities would not allow the Property to be developed for the Federal office
facilities contemplated herein; that possession of the land has been peaceable
and undisturbed; that Optionor’s title to the Property has never been disputed or
questioned to its knowledge; nor does Optionor know of any facts by reason of
which said possession or title might be disturbed or questioned, or by reason of
which any claim to the Property, or any part thereof might arise or be set up
adverse to Optionor.

(c) Electricity, telephone, sewer, and water utilities have been installed
within the adjacent public right of ways and are of sufficient size, capacity and
are available for immediate connection at the Property without any special
charge, assessment or apparatus for its current use.

(d) Optionor has disclosed that the property is a “facility” as defined by MCL
324.20101 et seq. due to the property’s historic uses described in the
environmental reports Optionor provided to Optionee. Optionor also represents
that it has provided all environmental information that it has with respect to the
environmental condition of the Property including the existence of asbestos
containing materials located in existing structures.

(e) Except as otherwise indicated on Schedule A attached hereto, or as
described in paragraph 7 (d) of this agreement, to the best of Optionor’s actual
knowledge:

(1) that since Optionor acquired an interest in the property, Optionor
has been in compliance with all federal, state and local laws, rules,
regulations, ordinances, codes and orders governing, establishing, limiting
or otherwise affecting the discharge or disposal of hazardous substances
or hazardous waste;

(2) that the property has not been used since the time Optionor
acquired any interest in the property for storage, disposal, deposit,
treatment, or recycling of toxic, dangerous or hazardous substances;

(3) that in the event that any subsequent purchaser of the property
avails itself of the available statutory exemptions from environmental
liability, there are no activities on the property which would subject an
owner thereof to damages, penalties, injunctive relief or clean-up costs
under any federal, state or local law or under any civil action respecting
hazardous substances on the property. The exemptions include that
owner's obligations to comply with its due care requirements as stated in
MCL 324.20107a, its obtaining a Baseline Environmental Site Assessment


under MCL 324.20101 et seq. and compliance with the All Appropriate
Inquiry exemption as defined and contained in CERCLA, as amended.

Optionor represents and warrants to the Optionee that the above representations
are true and correct as of the date hereof and will continue to be true and
correct on each day hereafter until and including any exercise of this Option.

8. Due Care Activities. Optionee shall provide Optionor with the results of the
Phase II Environmental Site Assessment being conducted by Wight & Company
(‘Phase II) for the purpose of estimating the total costs of due care activities
referenced in MCL 324.20107a (hereinafter referred to as “Due Care” activities)
for inclusion in the Brownfield Plans as “Eligible Activities” as defined by State of
Michigan’s Act 381 of 1996, as amended. It is the responsibility of the Optionee
to estimate the appropriate costs for the Eligible Activities. The parties shall
reasonably cooperate in the determination of the most cost effective and
appropriate Due Care activities to help ensure that those costs are approvable by
the appropriate governmental authorities. To this extent, the parties shall use
their best efforts to obtain the maximum allowable reimbursable costs for the
Eligible Activities.

In the event the governmental authorities do not approve all of the costs and
activities necessary to achieve Due Care both during pre and post construction of
the proposed federal facility, then Optionor shall be responsible for the
unapproved amount not to exceed $500,000 (Five Hundred Thousand Dollars)
(“Limitation of Liability”). The actual amount, up to the Limitation of Liability,
shall be deducted from the Outstanding Balance due to Optionor.

9. Closing Date. The Closing on the Property shall be no later than 90 days
after exercise of this Option by Optionee or its Developer. The Closing shall take
place at the location provided in the attached Agreement for Purchase and Sale
of the Property.

10. Possession. Possession of the Property shall be delivered to the Optionee or
its assignee on the date of Closing, unless a different possession date is agreed
to between the parties. Optionee will have an opportunity to inspect the Property
and that the Property will be conveyed in “as is” condition except as otherwise
provided for in the Option Agreement and the Agreement for Purchase and Sale
of the Property.

11. Optionee's Right to Enter and Inspect the Property. The Optionee’s
authorized or designated representatives or agents, or offerors participating in
the lease procurement process of the Optionee, shall have the right during the
period of this Option including any extension periods subject to the rights,
interests, and uses made of the Property by the Optionor, to enter upon the
Property for the purpose of inspecting same and making test borings, plans,



topographical and boundary surveys, environmental assessments, and any other
due diligence matters deemed reasonably prudent in connection with the
contemplated use of the Property as a leasehold for Federal facilities. Optionee
shall require any of said parties to maintain insurance in amounts and coverages
reasonably acceptable to Optionor. Said parties shall promptly repair and restore
the Property to the same condition as existed immediately prior to such entry if
such entry resulted in any damage thereto. Optionee shall provide Optionor
reasonable notice prior to entering the Property.

12.__ Government Approvals. Optionor and Optionee acknowledge that the
Property requires governmental approvals for Optionee’s intended use which
may include, but not be limited to: governmental approvals of what is known as
a Brownfield Plan (“BP”); street vacations; utility relocation; rezoning; site plan
approval; special use permit; and variances. Optionor shall be responsible, at
Optionor’s expense, for acquiring the necessary governmental approvals to affect
vacations of Sixth Street and Abbott Street, and any zoning variances.

Immediately upon the effective date of this Option, Optionor shall commence the
process of vacating Sixth Street and Abbott Street and removing any
encumbrances to title objected to by Optionee. Optionor shall make application
with the City of Detroit within thirty (30) days of the effective date of this Option
for said street vacations. The parties shall as soon as practical determine
whether any land must be acquired at a cost to the parties to relocate or
construct any other public roads. In the event that said costs will be required and
the parties cannot agree to the allocation of those costs within sixty (60) days of
a final determination of those costs, then Optionee may terminate this Option.

In the event that the City of Detroit requires Optionor to retain a certified traffic
consultant to prepare a traffic engineering study as part of its required submittal
to affect the City of Detroit's approval for those street vacations described above,
then Optionor shall cause the preparation of such a study to occur. Optionor
shall bear all costs for any traffic studies necessary to obtain the vacation of
Sixth Street and Abbott Street and/or dedication of alternative public right of
ways, except that in the event Developer does not execute the Purchase and
Sale Agreement identified in the Option and purchase the Site, then Optionee will
use its best efforts to secure funds to reimburse Optionor for reasonable
documented expenses to obtain such traffic studies (attorney's fees excluded), in
an amount not to exceed $50,000.

Optionor agrees to provide its support and written consent when required so as
to allow Optionee the ability to seek and obtain any and all necessary
governmental approvals prior to closing. Prior to closing on the Property,
Optionor shall consult with Optionee and shall obtain Optionee’s written approval
when Optionor is obtaining any governmental approvals on the Optionee’s behalf
that affect the Property.


Immediately upon execution of the Option, Optionor shall commence drafting the
Brownfield Plan and other documents required by the governmental! authorities
with the cooperation and assistance of Optionee. Optionee shall determine and
supply the list of “Eligible Activities” with the assistance of the Optionor, and
their estimated costs associated for the Eligible Activities that Optionee desires to
include in the Brownfield Plan. The costs, while estimated, must be reasonable
and necessary to affect Optionee’s intended use.

Optionor shall submit all draft Brownfield Plans to Optionee for written approval
prior to their submittal to the City of Detroit and/or the State of Michigan. After
Optionee has provided such written approval, Optionor shall take all steps
necessary to obtain approval of the Brownfield Plan for the project prior to
Optionee by no later than December 1, 2006. This deadline may be extended by
the Optionor for four (4) additional thirty (30) day periods so long as the delays
are not caused by the Optionor.

In the event that the City of Detroit approves an amount less than the agreed
upon costs for Eligible Activities, that amount (up to the Limitation of Liability)
shall be deducted from the Outstanding Balance. In no event shall the Optionor
be responsible for the failure of Optionee or Developer to comply with the
Brownfield process or for any shortfalls in anticipated reimbursement due to the
fault of either Optionee or its Developer. Any costs or expenses which may or
will be reimbursed pursuant to State of Michigan’s Act 381 shall be the
responsibility of Optionee or its Developer.

In the event that the Brownfield Plan has not been approved prior to Closing, the
Outstanding Balance shall be retained by Optionee until such time as the
necessary governmental approvals are obtained.

13. Assignment; Disclosure. This Option may be assigned by the Optionee,
without the consent of the Optionor. The Optionee shall provide the Optionor
with a copy of the fully executed assignment instrument prior to any closing of
sale under this Option and a copy of Exhibit 1, executed by the Developer. This
Option shall be subject to further assignment only with the prior written consent
of the original Optionee. The Optionee shall’ make any and all evaluations it
deems necessary in it sole discretion as to the financial ability or condition of the
Developer to proceed with a project for the construction and lease of Federal
office and related facilities contemplated for the Property.

14. Failure to Exercise Option. If Optionee elects not to exercise the rights,
option, or fee simple interests granted herein and to complete the purchase
within the time and in the manner provided herein, then this Option shall
terminate without further action or obligation on the part of either party.
 Case 1:12-cv-00388-TCW Document 1-2 Filed 06/18/12 Page 86o0f92 .

15. Parties. Nothing contained in this Option shall constitute the parties hereto
as partners with one another or agents for one another, As the context may
indicate, any term used herein shall include the singular, plural, ferninine,
masculine or neuter gender, as the case may be. The words “herein”,
“hereunder” and “hereof” and other equivalent words refer to this Option as an
entirety and not solely to the particular portion I which such word is used, except
if otherwise expressly limited.

16. Additional Documents. Optionee and the Optionor shall each execute and
deliver any other additional instruments and documents, and do all acts as may
be necessary to implement and effectuate the intent of this Option and to carry
out the general purpose of the Option; and each shall upon the request of the
other, join in any instrument or document in recordable form as may be
necessary to release rights hereunder should this Option terminate or otherwise,
to correct the public records. All such documents shall be in the form and
substance satisfactory to the parties and their respective counsel.

17. Counterparts. This Option may be executed in any number of counterparts,
any one of which shall be considered an original, and all of which, taken together
shall be deemed to be one original.

18. Prior Agreements. The parties agree and acknowledge that this Option
cancels and supersedes all prior agreements, whether written, oral, or both; is
entire in itself; and that this Option, Exhibit 1, and a Memorandum of Option
(Exhibit 3) executed on the same date as this Option are the only agreements
between the parties hereto respecting the Option and the Property; that all
agreements and undertakings between the parties are embodied in this Option
and Exhibit 1. No promises, covenants, or representations of any kind, other
than those expressly contained herein or in Exhibit 1, have been made to induce
any party hereto to enter into this Option. This Option may be amended only by
written instrument executed by Optionee and Optionor.

19. Disputes. This contract is subject to the Contract Disputes Act of 1978 (41
U.S.C. sections 601-613) (‘Act’). Except as provided in the Act, all disputes
arising under or relating to this Option shall be resolved under this Act. The
Contracting Officer for purposes of this Option shall be Mr. Forrest Hudson,
General Services Administration, Region 5, Office of Property Development.

20. Notices. All notices or communications required under this Option or which
either party desires to give to the other shall be sent by certified or registered,
return receipt requested, postage prepaid, United States mail, personal delivery,
or recognized, private, overnight courier which maintains evidence of delivery
and in the case of a notice or communication to the Optionee, is addressed as
follows: General Services Administration, Attn: Mr. Forrest Hudson, Office of
Property Development, 230 S.-Dearborn Street, Suite 3600, Chicago, Illinois,



60604; and in the case of a notice or communication to the Optionor, is
addressed as follows; Mr. Sam Danou, 1200 6" Street LLC, 16630 Southfield
Road, Allen Park, MI, 48101, or is addressed in such other way as the parties
may from time to time direct by written notice to the other. Notices shall be
deemed to have been received on the second (2"°) business day after they are
deposited in the United States mail as provided above and one (1) business day
after deposit with a recognized, private overnight courier as provided above.

21. Time of the Essence. Optionor and Optionee mutually agree that time is of
the essence throughout the term of this Agreement and every provision hereof in
which time is an element. No extension of time for performance of any
obligations or acts shall be deemed an extension of time for performance of any
other obligations or acts. If any date for performance of any terms, conditions
or provisions hereof shall fall on a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday, then the
time of such performance shall be extended to the next business day thereafter.

22. Authority of Optionor. Concurrently with the execution of this Option,
Optionor shall furnish to the Optionee a certified copy of the resolution, or if the
Optionor is a general or limited partnership, the written approval of the general
partner(s) authorizing the Optionor to consummate this transaction together with
a certified copy of the partnership or limited partnership agreement. The
Optionor shall further provide such other instruments as the Optionee shall deem
appropriate in its reasonable judgment to evidence the authority of the Optionor
to consummate this transaction.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Option is executed the day and year first above
written.

OPTIONOR: OPTIONEE:
1200 6" Street LLC United States of America

A Limited Liability Company Acting by and through the
eral Services Administration

NAME: ‘SS#wN (2 B-OAa\ U NAMES NSSN A VBS Ovr—

TITLE: vo a TITIES BEER wD Ss OHte_LR.

/

ATTEST:__| nou
a


NAME:

TITLE:

ATTACHMENTS:

Exhibit 1 — Agreement for Purchase and Sale of Real Property
Exhibit 2 - Survey & ALTA Survey Instructions

schedule A — Exceptions to Optionor’s Representations

Exhibit 3 - Memorandum of Option

10



EXHIBIT 3

RECORDING REQUESTED BY, AND )
WHEN RECORDED RETURN TO: )
Carl E, Smith, Assistant Regional Counsel +)
U.S. General Services Administration )
Office of Regional Counsel, 5L )
230 South Dearborn, Room 3786 )

)

(

Chicago, Illinois 60604
Space Above for Recorder's Use)

MEMORANDUM OF REAL ESTATE OPTION AGREEMENT

This Memorandum of Real Estate Option Agreement (Memorandum of Option
Agreement”) is made and entered into the 1% day of August 2006 (“Effective
Date”), by and between 1200 6™ Street LLC,(Optionor”), a Limited Liability
Company, whose address is 16630 Southfield Road, Allen Park, Michigan, 48101
and the United States of America, acting by and through the U.S.
General Services Administration (‘Optionee”) whose address is 230 S,
Dearborn Street, Suite 3600, Chicago, Illinois, 60604.

1. Grant of Option. In accordance with the Real Estate Option Agreement
between the Optionor and Optionee dated August 1, 2006, Optionor granted to
the Optionee the exclusive and irrevocable option (‘Option’) to purchase certain
real property situated in the City of Detroit, County of Wayne, State of Michigan
containing 10.89 acres which is commonly known as 1200 6" Street (“Property”)
and is more particularly described in Attachment A attached hereto and made a
part hereof, together with all improvements, easements,.and appurtenances to
the Property for the price and within the time specified in this Option. This
Option is fully assignable at any time prior to closing to Optionee’s developer
(“Developer”). :

2. Term of Option. This Option shall continue in effect for a period of not less
than one (1) year from the Effective Date of this Option and may be exercised in
accordance with its terms at any time on or before its expiration inclusive of any
extension period provided for herein, by serving written notice on the Optionor in
the manner prescribed in Section 20 of the Real Estate Option Agreement. The
giving of such notice shall result in Exhibit 1 of the Real Estate Option Agreement
becoming a binding contract of purchase and sale between the parties, effective
on the date of the receipt of notice of exercise of the Option as provided in said
Section 20. The Option may be extended at the election of Optionee for an



additional thirty (30) days by giving notice as provided in Section 20 of the Real
Estate Option Agreement.

3. PURPOSE OF MEMORANDUM OF OPTION AGREEMENT. This Memorandum of Real
Estate Option Agreement is prepared for the purpose of recording to give public notice
that the Optionee or its assignee has the right to purchase the Property.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Option is executed the day and year first above
written.

OPTIONOR: OPTIONEE:
1200 6" Street LLC United States of America

A Limited_Liability Company a a pcung by and through the

TITLE: MANAGER. Nitistinmitne We

ATTACHMENT:

Attachment A — Legal Description (2 pages)


STATE OF MICHIGAN _i+)
) SS.

COUNTY OF WAYNE )

On this _!8 day of August, 2006, before me appeared Sam’. . Danou, to me
personally known, who did say that he is the Managing Member of 1200 6"
Street LLC, the limited liability company (‘LLC’) described herein, and who
executed the foregoing instrument; and that said instrument was executed on
behalf of said LLC; and he acknowledged said instrument to be the free acts and
deed of said LLC.

Seal

My Commission Expires: |~l4 2012 Lf Barbara L Olszewski

Notary Publle

My Commision Expires oN4/S032
Wayne County, Michigan

STATE OF ILLINOIS )

) SS
COUNTY OF COOK )
On this day of , 2006, before me appeared Forrest Hudson, to
me personally known, who did say that he is the Contracting Officer, Public
Buildings Service, Great Lakes Region — 5PE, U. S. General Services

Administration Government”), and who executed the foregoing instrument; and
that said instrument was executed on behalf of said Government by authority of
federal law; and he acknowledged said instrument to be the free acts and deed

of said Government.

Seal Notary Public:

My Commission Expires: