ASSET PURCHASE AND PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT

by and between
COLLAGENEX PHARMACEUTICALS INC.
and

THOMAS SKOLD

Dated as of August 19, 2604



TABLE OF CONTENTS

ARTICLE 2 PURCHASE AND SALE; CONSULTING ARRANGEMENT beeeeseveneeseeaeens 6
2.1 Purchase and Sale of Purchased Assets Vetssseneueescneteesecsneceseeresssseracceccnsastceracsseceee 6
2.2 Excluded Assets
2.3 Purchase PLiCe.......sccscsssssssssssseestissrssesesessassessteesesssenatissisaesesstueeeceseesssecsecccu. 7
2.4 Deliveries by SOUT. eecseccseesceesceceesesansessnsssetssecssussscesnesatessesavsysesteesseseeeseeeeeee cc 7
2.5 Further Assurances....s.scssscssssrsesssssessseussserseretscnesssenusuitteeeeeeceseeececceccecc 7
2.6 Consulting Agreement... sbusvevevesGvaseBeese yess iss bescereesececttesssseee PF

ARTICLE 3 JOINT STEERING Conte DEVELOPMENT P PLAN;

3.1 Joint Steering COMME... se cecsessensaseccavsssucssussscstesauessstevassssessesevenceceeseec cece 8
3.2 Selection of and Responsibility for Development of Products ..cccccccccccccccce coos... 9
3.3 Development Plans .........-csccsssssessscsssessenssessesnusestisiseaeysessesstsseeeescetseeeeceeccc 10
3.4 Development Diligence West dyeneaneusetacvanecessseeeeasesacsanenecscesesasantessssisenneaverecvacevsarcanee 1O
3.5 Regulatory Approvals ..2.......cccescssscssssvssesssessasarsssssisusetessarsvesestavesteseeeeessseececccocce 10)
3.6 Intellectual Property Rights serteaeaetenesssuuneeeetcasetanrsusteteasecacetepsscescerestarsessertserseessees LO
3.7 Commercialization and Business Plans ....j.cc.scccsssscscsssscssssssseeceseeeeeescoeececccc, 1]
4.] Milestone PAYMENUS ee cessseecsessoecerssessuiessssstsssessnusssossterssppasessasavesepeesecseceseccces, 1]
4.2 Royalties ....cscsssecssessssssssssassesseessssussessssseesinsessssestarsstsseessn tele eee l!
4.3  Sublicense Income .. teeeeeenaeeapacecsscarrecsenesnsstsnaeatscesenscetsaacesesecsrssaressecssevasccese LD
4.4 Patent Defense Expense Set-Off.., seteasasentcareesnsseavegeceresacarersceserscsserceacsrvaree UZ
4.5 Statements and Payment ........cscscsssssssessssssusssetsimsssarssnsiiupusesuteesseseeeeeeeecc. 12
4.6 Taxes and Withholding... cosecseeesserecseessseeeessvecarsessessessacssuessarecrensyesspsseessesesessecescce 12
4.7 Payment Currency; Currency Exchange... ccccccscsccssssessessessscevstcsteescesseeecscesccc 12
4.8 Maintenance of Records; AUdit ...s..csssssscssssssccsensnssessescesssnnstatettesseesesesceeccccc. 13
ARTICLE 5 REPRESENTATIONS, WARRANTIES AND COVENANTS wees 14
5.1 Mutual Representations, Warranties and COVENANES oo... eccseccesecsecsesesceecerecenecees, 14
5.2 Additional Representations, Warranties and Covenants of NY <0) [c 14

5.3 Disclaimer of Warranties rites eaneecavaeacesaseveesatenscrsaceetesatsensssesastssenesesecnsarecursaraverseees 15

1-PR/1256533,9



ARTICLE 6

6.1
6.2
6.3
6.4
6.5
6.6
ARTICLE 7
7]
7.2
7.3
74
7.5
ARTICLE 8
8.1
8.2
8.3
8.4
8.5
ARTICLE 9
9.]
9.2
9.3
9.4
9.5
9.6
9,7
9.8
9.9

1-PR/1256533.9

TABLE OF CONTENTS

(continued)

Page

CONFIDENTIALITY, PUBLICATION AND PUBLIC
ANNOUNCEMENTS. ....scsssssssssvssisunsvasiecsopeccesssssssseeccoosssssse swascenRinnasteeies 1S
Confidentiality ......-sesssessensionantsnsnanissistiainestnasnuanianisssnicsseeece, 15
Authorized Disclosure... ....ccsscssunsseessusstasessssteesatusatucstteseseeeccc 16
Return of Confidential Information ...-...cse-sscsscsseseseesosssessseseeeeeeeeeeeeececcec 16
Unauthorized Use...ossscsscsccesssessussssstnutarsssiniunssiensastiesisitteeeeeeeeeeeecccc. 16
Public Announcements ......:...sscsnesseesssssseessetisascasssesesssessoivucpecttaseeseeeceecc, 16
Injunctive Relief... csscssssssssssssssssssssiesesssesseepesssueteateviseceeeeeeece cirexeuEnaere 16
INDEMNIFICATION cess. sssssssoseesessesonssnsstar-tuvasssnssutvssuevrernetuetesteeeeccccseccgece 17
COAG EIEN ...-sessessenssrsesesnssssessneseenssieunsssounsbsnvevestensuavaseatusineeeeeeceee 17
SKOIM sa seerecssssetsseectssceeessssetessonensnsunsnssesitnesiusnaesenanarantistsstseieeeeeeeccccc. 17
Indemnification Procedures ........cssssssssnsesssssnssseesees sesssstecesesesseseteeessccc. 17
IMSUTANCE ........seseeercessessessesenecunsusbsnssnsnnsssnssessstsessseceepuesessnesessetsousesseeecsonecccc. 18
Linnitation of Liabilities, oo... o...ccccscssssmsmusssessemmaseessavasiesnsissstenseteeteeeeceeecc. 19
TERM AND TERMINATION Qu. csssssssssacscssssseseesvsseesessestupecceeseesseesesecc 19
Term ecsssssssossstsssstsesssseeesssssstesueneesaninesusssisssiasnnsanomuaratsasienassteseeasseseecc 19
Voluntary Termination by CollaGenex ..ccccccccsssssscosssesssusesseeecseeceeseeecoeecec cc 19
Material Breach... ..s.scsscsscsecssssesensnsssssesisiasiesessssstsupoupeesteeesecceeeccce. 19
Continuing Rights of Sublicensees .....cccccsosssssssessssssssssssssvsesesceceeeeeccccc. 1Y
Effect of Termination... cc.sccsssossssnsssnsssssansesssssvsssvaseiouitteeeeeeeeeecccc. 20)
MISCELLANEOUS jsonesescsusnsesssnsisiccicsssicistissditbincayseeeaneoroneyoseoreeeeseeseoescscs 21
Dispute Resolution; Mediation ......cscssscsssssssssoe-sevsssesspunosvonscaseeceecoeeececcc. 2!
ASSIQMIMENL ......cssscsssescssescecssessscestecssssustsuanvustansesararsssaneasativestecceee ce. «22
Further Actions ......ccccccn. 22
Force Majeure wo. ccccceccsccccseseesesccececsce letevecusetanens wees 22
NOTICES. essssseeecosssscenecetesssseneesnssnustenisnattssnsohnnsesteessasasistsesetseesceceseeccc 23
AMENAMENE oss osrecresseseeeesssseesosiasessenieseseuesstesiussssetusuttinssisipneeteneeseeeecec. 23
Waiver... 23
Counterparts; Facsimile Signatures ........ Lisdernvssnaecesepeesnssstecscecssacssensstccetsuacacecnuerss 23
Descriptive Headings v.....csccccssccsscss, 23



TABLE OF CONTENTS
(continued)

9.10 Governing Law vocceccccssccecsssscessscssscsseesevecseseusaeessauvessesecapsaps

9.11 Severability
9.12  #ntire Agreement of the Parties
9.13. Independent Contractors
9.]4 Expenses
9.15 No Third Party Beneficiaries
9.16 No Strict Construction

b-PR/1256533.9

eee eee ee ee ee ee ee eee ee ee ee ee ee ee rr er rrr eerreer ere

Pde Pb WL deme red ere rn rete hd be da rw mare shemerenseer

oes ee Se cece ee eee eee ee eer ee rer

HOOF EO Eee Ode eH OO EET EEE RHEE S OREO H HEHEHE EE ENF EAO DUE St HHH e COTE REO e bee eb tebtes

er ee ee ee ee eee ee eer eee eee eee ees

PO PaRE ar arhawn enema PEDRO ERE TPE EHF F AOR S HUH EE EE RHEE EEE EEE HE Ree

Page 18 of 43

aaa euus HSH MaRS Ta BAERS 24



ASSET PURCHASE AND PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT

This ASSET PURCHASE AND PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT (the
“Agreement”), dated as of August 19, 2004 (the “Effective Date”), is made by and between
CollaGenex Pharmaceuticals Inc., a Delaware corporation having its principal office at 41
University Drive, Newtown, Pennsylvania, United States of America 18940 (“CollaGenex”), and
Thornas Skold, a citizen and resident of Sweden of Bjormo Gard, S-761 41 Norrtalje, Sweden
(“Skold”). CollaGenex and Skold are cach sometimes referred to individually as a “Party” and
together as the “Parties.”

RECITALS

WHEREAS, the Parties entered into that certain Co-operation, Development and
Licensing Agreement dated February 12, 2002 (the “Original Agreement’);

WHEREAS, the Parties desire to modify the lerms of their telationship by terminating the
Original Agreement and, simultaneous! y therewith, entering into this Agreemient; and

WHEREAS, in connection with such modification of terms, CollaGenex desires to
acquire from Skold the topical technology that Skold has developed, as more specifically
described herein, and Skold desires to transfer to CollaGenex, such topical delivery technology.

NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing premises and the representations,
covenants and agreements contained herein, CollaGenex and Skold, intending to be legally
bound, hereby agree as follows:

ARTICLE i
DEKINITIONS

When used in this Agrcement, whether in the singular or plural, each of the following
capitalized terms shall have the meanings set forth in this Article I.

1.1 “Affiliate” means a Person that, directly or indirectly, through one or more
intermediates, controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with, the Person specitied.
For the purposes of this definition, contro! shall mean the direct or indirect ownership of (i) in
the case of corporate entities, securities authorized to cast more than fifty percent (50%) of the
votes in any election for directors, (ii) in the case of non-corporate entities, more than fifty
percent (50%) ownership interest with the power to direct the management and policies of such
non-corporate entity, or (iii) such lesser percentage as may be the maximum percentage allowed
ta be owned by a forcipn corporation under the applicable laws or regulations of a particular
jurisdiction outside of the United States) of the equity having the power to vote in the election of
directors or to direct the management and policies of another entity. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, the term “Affiliate” shall not include subsidiaries in which a Person or its Affiliates
owns a majority of the ordinary voting power to elect a majority of the board of directors, but is
restricted from electing such majority by contract or otherwise, until sucl time as such restriction
is no longer in effect.

J-PR/1256533.9



12 “Books and Records” means copies of all books and records of Skold and its
Affiliates related to the Restoraderm Technology or the Purchased Assets.

1.3. “Additional Records” means any and al] records or documentation in whatever
form pertaining to the development, marketing or sales of a Product and ori ginating from or
generated by CollaGenex under this Agreement such as, but not limited to, batch protocols,
stertlity protocols, clinica] tria] documentation, specification over raw materials and marketing
materials.

1.4 “Business Day” means any day except Saturday and Sunday, on which
commercial banking institutions in New York are open for business. Any reference in this
Agreement to “day”, whether or not capitalized, shall refer to a calendar day, noi a Business Day.

1.5 “Commercially Reasonable Efforts” means, with respect to a Party, the efforts
and resources which would be used by that Party consistent with prevailing pharmaceutical
industry standards for a company of similar size and scope to such Party with Tespect to a
product or potential product at a similar stage in its development or product life and of similar
market potential, taking into account efficacy, safety, the anticipated Regulatory Authority
approved Jabeling, the competitiveness of alternative products in the market place or under
development, the patent and other proprietary position of the product, the likelihood of
Regulatory Approval, the commercial value of the product and other relevant factors.

1.6 “Confidential Information” means all secret, confidential or proprietary
information or data, whether provided in written, oral, graphic, video, computer or other form,
provided by one Party (the “Disclosing Party”) ta the other Party (the “Receiving Party’’)
pursuant to this Agreement or generated pursuunt 10 this Agreement, including but not limited to,
information relating to the Disclosing Party’s existing or proposed research, development efforts,
patent applications, business or products and any other information or materials that have not
been made available by the Disclosing Party to the general public. The terms of this Agreement
shall also be deemed Confidential Information hereunder, except to the extent disclosed pursuant
to Section 7.5 herein. Notwithstanding the foregoing sentences, Confidential Information shall
not include any information or materials that:

(a) were already known to the Receiving Party (other than under an obligation
of confidentiality) at the time of disclosure by the Disclosing Party to the extent such Receiving
Party has documentary evidence to that effect:

(b) were gencrally available to the public or otherwise part of the public
domain at the time of its disclosure to the Receiving Party:

(c) becaine generally available to the public or otherwise part of the public
domain after its disclosure or development, as the case may be, and other than through any act or
omission of a Party in breach of such Party’s confidentiality obligations under this Agreement; or

(d) were subsequently lawfully disclosed to the Receiving Party by a Third

Party who had no obligation to the Disclosing Party not to disclose such information or materials
to others.

[-PR/)256533,9



1.7 “Control,” “Controls,” “Controller” or “Controlled” means with respect to
Technology and/or Patent Rights, the ownership thereof, or the possession of the ability to grant
licenses or sublicenses thereto without violating the terms of any agreement or other arrangement
with, or the rights of, any Third Party existing as of the date on which such license or sublicense
is granted.

1,8 “FDA” means the United States Food and Drug Administration, or any successor
agency thereof.

1.9 “First Commercial Sale” means the first sale by CollaGenex or its Affiliates or
sublicensees of a Product to a Third Party for end use or consumption of such Product after a
Regulatory Authority has granted Regulatory Approval of such Product, if applicable.

1.10 “Force Majeure” means any occurrence beyond the reasonable control of a Party
that prevents or substantially interferes with the performance by the Party of any of its
obligations hereunder, if such occurs by reason of any act of God, flood, fire, explosion,
earthquake, strike, Jockout, Jabor dispute, casualty or accident; or war, revolution, civil
commotion, acts of public enemies, terrorist attack, blockage or embargo; or any injunction, law,
order, proclamation, regulation, ordinance, demand or requirement of any government (to the
extent such government has ruling authority over such Party) or of any subdivision, authority or
representative of any such goverment; or other similar event, beyond the reasonable contro! of
such Party, if and only if the Party affected shall have used reasonable efforts to avoid such
occurrence.

lft “Know-how” means, whether or not patented or patentable, all ideas, inventions,
trade secrets, data, instructions, methods, techniques, assays, processes (including technolagy
manufacturing processes), procedures, inventions, know-how, data, designs, formulas,
validations, documentation, technology, niaterials, equipment, specifications, and information.

1,12 “Losses” means any and all liabilities, damages, fines, penalties, deficiencies,
losses and expenses (including interest, court costs, amounts paid in settlement, reasonable fees
of attorneys, accountants and other experts or other reasonable expenses of litigation or other
proceedings or of any claim, default or assessment); provided, however, that the term “Losses”
Shall not include any special, consequential, indirect, punitive, provisional or similar damages,
except to the extent actually paid by a Party pursuant to any Third Party Claim.

[1.13 “NDA” means a New Drug Application pursuant to 21 U.S.C. Section 505(b)(1)
or Section 505(b)(2) submitted to the FDA or any successor application or procedure required for
Regulatory Approval to commence sale of a Product,

1.14 “Net Sales” means the gross amounts received by CollaGenex or any of its
Affiliates on account of sales of Products to Third Parties (including without limitation Third
Party distributors and wholesalers), less the total of:

(a) Trade, cash and/or quantity discounts actually allowed or accrued which
are not already reflected in the amount invoiced;

1-PR/{ 2565339



(b) Excise, sales and other consumption taxes (including VAT on the sale of
such Products) and custom duties to the extent included in the invoice price and to the extent
such taxes are remitted to the applicable taxing authority;

(c) Freight, insurance and other transportation charges to the extent included
in the invoice price and separately identified on the invoice or other documentation maintained in
the ordinary course of business:

(d) Amounts repaid, credited or accrued by reason of retums, rejections,
defects or recalls or because of chargebacks, retroactive price reductions, refunds or billing
errors;

(c) Payments and rebates directly related to the sale of Products acer ued, paid
or deducted in a manner consistent with generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”),
pursuant to agreements with Third Parties or governmental regulations (including, but not
limited to, those granted or given to managed health care organizations, wholesalers and other
distributors, buying groups, health care insurance carriers. or to federal, state and Jocal
governments);

(f) Amounts written off by reason of uncorrectable debt;

(g) Any royalties payable to Third Parties in the event that a Product contains
one or more ingredients in which royalty amounts arc to be paid on such other ingredients; and

(h) Any other similar and customary deductions taken in accordance with
GAAP consistently applied.

Use of Products for promotional, sampling or compassionate use purposes or for use in Clinical
trials shall not be considered in determining Net Sales, In the case of any sale of a Product
between CollaGenex and its Affiliates for resale, Net Sales shall be calculated as above only on
the first arm’s length sale thereafter to a Third Party.

1.15 “Patent Rights” means all patents and patent applications and all patent
applications hereafter filed, including any continuations, continuations-in-part, divisions,
provisionals or any substitute applications, non-provisional applications, any patent issued with
respect to any such patent applications, any reissue, reexamination, renewal or extension
(including any supplemental patent certificate) of any such patent, and any confirmation patient
or registration patent or patent of addition based on any such patent, and all foreign counterparts
of any of the foregoing.

1.16 “Person” means any individual, firm, corporation, partnership, Jimited liability
company, trust, unincorporated organization or other entity or a government agency or political
subdivision thereto, and shall include any successor (by merger or otherwise) of such Person.

1.17 “Product” means a product incorporating the Restoraderm Technology.

1.18 “Regulatory Approval” means the technical, medical and scientific li censés,
registrations, authorizations and approvals (including, without limitation, approvals of NDAs,

w Ae
1-PR/1256533.9



supplements and amendments, pre- and post- approvals, pricing and Third Party reimbursement
approvals, and labeling approvals) of any national, supra-national, regional, state or local
regulatory agency, department, bureau, commnission, council or other governmental entity,
necessary for the development (including the conduct of clinical tnals), manufacture,
distribution, marketing, promotion, offer for sale, use, import, reimbursement, export or sale of a
Product in a regulatory jurisdiction,

1.19 “Regulatory Authority” means any national (¢.g., the FDA), supra-national,
regional, statc or local regulatory agency, department, bureau, commission, council or other
governmental! entity involved in the granting of Regulatory Approval in any country.

1.20 “Restoraderm Intellectual Property” means all (a) Restoraderm Patent Rights;
(b) Restoraderm Know-How, and all rights in any jurisdiction to limit the use or disclosure
thereof; and (c) rights to sue and recover damages or obtain injunctive relief for past and future
infringement, dilution, misappropriation, violation or breach thereof.

121 “Restoraderm Know-How” means any and all Know-How owned or Controlled
by Skold ox its Affiliates as of the Effective Date relating to the Restoraderm T echnolopy

1.22 “Restoraderm Patent Rights” means any and all Patent Rights owned or
Controlled by Skold or its Affiliates as of the Effective Date relating to the Restoraderm
Technology. Schedule 1.22 contains those Patent Rights that have previously been assigned to
CollaGenex by Skofd, which Patent Rights are so specified under Schedule 1.22.

1.23 “Restoraderm Technology” means the topical drug delivery technology developed
by Skold and covered by the patent applications recited in Schedule !.22. For the avoidance of
doubt technology for oral, nasal or intravenous use shall not, when used in this Agreement, be
embraced by the term “topical”,

1.24 “Sublicense Income” shal] mean royallies actually received from a Third Party by
CollaGenex on account of sales of Products by such Third Party in consideration for the yrant of
a sublicense to such third party under the Restoraderm Patent Rights.

1.25 “Third Party(ies)” means any Person other than Skold, CollaGenex and their
respective Affiliates.

1.26 “Trademark” or “Trademarks” means all trademarks, service marks, trade names,
domain names, and registrations and applications for registration of the foregoing.

1.27 “Valid Claim” means a claim of an issued and unexpired patent which claim has
not been held invalid or unenforceable by a court or other government agency of competent
Jurisdiction from which no appeal can be or has been taken and has not been held or admitted to
be invalid or unenforceable through re-examination or disclaimer, Opposition procedure, nullity
suit or otherwise, which claim, but for the licenses granted herein, would be infringed by the sale
of a Product.

1-PR/1256$33,9



ARTICLE 2
PURCHASE AND SALE; CONSULTING ARRANGEMENT

2.1 Purchase and Sale of Purchased Assets, Upon the terms and subject to the
conditions set forth herein, on the Effective Date, Skold shall sell, transfer and deliver to
CollaGenex, and cause its Affiliates io sell, transfer and deliver to CollaGenex, free and clear of
any encumbrances, and CollaGenex shall purchase from Skold and its Affiliates, Skold’s and its
Affiliates’ full, complete and irrevocable right, title and interest in and to the assets and rights of
Skold and its Affiliates that are set forth below (collectively, the “Purchased Assets”) comprising
all of the Skold’s and its Affiliates’ right, tide and interest in the following:

(a) the Restoraderm Intellectual Property;
(b) the Books and Records relating to the Restoraderm Jntellectual Property:

(c) all rights and claims of Skold and its Affiliates against Third Parties
relating to the Purchased Assets, choale or inchoate, known or unknown, con lingent or
otherwise; and

(d) all goodwill, if any, relating to the foregoing.

2.2 Excluded Assets. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein,
from and after the Effective Date, Skold and its Affiliates shall retain all of the right, title and
interest in and to, and there shall be excluded from the sale, assignment or transfer hereunder
and the Purchased Assets shall not include the following specifically enumerated assets
(collectively, the “Excluded Assets”):

bd

(a) books and records that Skold or its Affiliates are required to retain
pursuant to any applicable Jaw or regulations, other than the Books and Records; and

(b) general books of account and books of original entry that comprise
Skold’s or its Affiliates’ permanent accounting or tax records.

2.3 Purchase Price. The purchase price payable to Skold (the “Purchase Price”) for
the sale of the Purchased Assets shall be up to US $1,000,000 payable in United States Dollars as
follows:

(a) US$150,000 within thirty (30) days after the Effective Date:
(b) U8S$150,000 on January 31, 2005; and

(c) US$700,000 within thirty (30) days after the issuance of a patent covering
the Restoraderm Technology, provided such issuance occurs after the First Commercial Salc,
provided further that if the patent issues prior to the First Commercial Sale, the payment pursuant
to this Section 2.3(c) will be paid within thirty (30) days after the First Commercial Sale of the
first Product, provided that if a patent never issues, no amounts shall be due under this Section
2.3(c) and the sale and transfer of the Purchased Assets shall still occur pursuant to the terms of
this Agreement. If CollaGenex makes a good faith determination for business reasons, in its sole

-6-
[-PV1256533.9



diserction, to delay the launch of a commercially viable Product, then, provided that a patent has
issued covering the Restoraderm Technology, it will be deemed as if a First Commercial Sale has
occurred and CollaGenex shall pay Skotd the US$700,000 payment for such Product within
thirty (30) days after such determination has been made.

2.4 Further Assurances, Skold shall execute and deliver (and shall cause its Affiliates
to execute and deliver) such additional instruments and other documents and use (and shall cause
its respective Affiliates to use) all reasonable efforts to take, or cause to be taken, all actions and
to do, or cause to be done, all things necessary under applicable law or reasonably requested by
CollaGenex to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby and to confirm and assure the
transfer of the Purchased Assets to CollaGenex,

2.5 Consulting Agreement. On the Effective Date, Skold and CollaGenex shal] enter
into a consulting agreement attached hereto as Exhibit A (the “Consulting Agreement”). Under
the terms of the Consulting Agreement, Skold shall act as a consultant exclusively to CollaGenex
regarding the Restoraderm Technology. Any and all Patent Rights, Know-How, technology or
other intellectual property rights, whether developed, conceptualized, generated and/or put into
practice by Skold (individually or in conjunction with CollaGenex) during the term of this
Agreement or the Consulting Agreement relating to the Restoraderm Technology or any other
topical drug delivery technology shall be the sole property of CollaGenex. Skold shal! promptly
notify CollaGenex, in writing, of any such Patent Rights, Know-How, technology or other
intellectual property rights, and Skold will assign and hereby does assign, complete and
irrevocable right, title and interest in and to all such Patent Rights, Know-How, technolopy and
other intellectual property rights.

ARTICLE 3
JOINT STEERING COMMITTEE; DEVELOPMENT PLAN ; BUSINESS PLAN

3.) Joint Steering Committec.

(a) Membership. Within thirty (30) days following the Effective Date, each
of the Parties shall appoint two persons from their respective organizations to serve ona joint
steering conunittee (“Joint Steering Committee”), it being understood that in addition to Skold.
Skold shall appoint an advisor or other designee to serve on the Joint Steering Committee,
provided such advisor and/or designee is reasonably acceptable to CollaGenex and js bound by
obligations of confidentiality at least as stringent as those contained herein, Kither Party may
appoint, substitute or replace members of the Joint Steering Committee to serve as their
representatives upon notice to the other Party. The Joint Sieering Committee shall be chaired by
one of the CollaGenex representatives. Each representative of CollaGenex shall be entitled to
one vote and each representative of Skold shall be entitled to one vote. The Joint Steering
Committee shall to the extent practicable seck to operate by consensus, provided that
CollaGenex will have the tie-breaking vote on all Joint Steering Committee decisions.

(b) Reserved.

(c) Responsibilities. The Joint Steering Committec shall perform the
following functions: (i) review and agree upon the Products to be developed; (ii) oversce the

-7-

1-PR/1255533.9



development of the Products pursuant to the terms of this Agreement; (ili) review and agree upon
the Development Plans for Products and any material amendments to the Development Plans;
and (iv) have such other responsibilities as may be assigned to the Joint Steering Cornmittee
pursuant to this Agreement or as may be mutually agreed upon by the Parties from time to time.

(dq) Meetings. The Joint Steering Committee shall regularly meet in person,
by video or by teleconference (as mutually agreed by the Partics from time to lime) twice a year
or more frequently as may be agreed upon, to exercise its responsibilities, In order for a meeting
of the Joint Steering Committee to be convened, such meeting must include al least two (2)
committee members of each Party and, provided this condition is met, a unanimous action taken
at such mecting shal) have been duly and validly taken by the Joint Steering Committee. The
first meeting of the Joint Steering Committce shall be convened within thirty (30) days from the
Effective Date. CollaGenex shall reimburse Skold’s designee for reasonable out-of-pocket costs
associated with such designee attending any meeting of the Joint Steering Committee,

(c) Agendas and Minutes for the Joint Steering Committee. Unless othenvise
decided by the Joint Steering Committee, each Party will use reasonable efforts to disclose to the
chair all proposed agenda items along with appropriate background ar supporting information at
least twenty (20) working days in advance of a Joint Steering Committee meeting. The chair
will use reasonable efforts to present an agenda with appropriate background or supporting
information at Jeast ten (10) working days in advance of a Joint Steering Committee meeting,
After each meeting of the Joint Steering Committee, the Party whose tum it was hosting such
meeting will prepare, within ten (10) working days after each meeting (whether held in person,
by video or by telecominunication), the minutes reporting in reasonable detail the actions taken
or to be taken by the Joint Steering Committee, or its designees, the attendees, the status of goals
and achievements as well as issues requiring resolution, and resolutions of previously reported
issues, Which minutes shall set forth all pertinent information presented during the meeting in
form and content reasonably acceptable to the other Party and shail be signed by one of the Joint
Steering Committee representatives from each of the Parties.

(6 No Authority to Modify Agreement. The Joint Steering Committee shall
have no authority to amend or waive compliance with the terms and conditions of this
Agrecment, or to approve actions of the Parties which are inconsistent with this Agreement.

3.2 Selection of and Responsibility for Development of Products.

(a) Proposals for Products. At any time after the Effective Date, cither Party
may make a wrilten proposal to the Joint Steering Committee regarding the development of a
product. Such proposal shall include (i) any data and other information in its possession which
may be relevant to the use of the proposed product, and (ii) an outline of the major development
activities required to obtain Regulatory Approval for such proposed Product in the United States,
including a timeline for performing such activities, Thereafter, the Joint Development
Committee shall meet in order to review such proposal.

(b) Inclusion of Products, With respect to a proposal pursuant to Section
3.2(a), if the Joint Steering Committee accepts such proposal, such proposed Product shall be
developed by CollaGenex in accordance with the terms of this Agreement and the Development

~8-
1-PRI1256533.9



Plan prepared by CollaGenex pursuant to Section 3.3 for such Product. If the Joint Steering
Committee cannot agree on the inclusion of any proposed Product for development by
CollaGenex, CollaGenex shall have the final decision as to whether and which Products are
developed by CollaGenex under the terms of this Agreement. Jt js acknowledged and agreed by
the Parties that CollaGenex is currently developing a benzoyl peroxide Product (the “BPO
Product”) and a clobetasol product (the “Clobetasol Product”),

(c) Responsibility. CollaGenex shall have sole responsibility and use its
Commercially Reasonable Efforts for developing Products and shall bear all costs and expenses
associated with the development of such Products.

3.3. Development Plans, Once the Joint Steering Committee agrees to include, or
CollaGenex has selected, a Product for development, CollaGenex shal! prepare a development
plan, including the clinical trials contemplated for each'such Product (each, a ‘Development
Plan”). No later than October 31 of each year following the first year of a Development Plan,
CollaGenex shall update each Development Plan and provide such Development Plan to the
Joint Steering Committee for review and approval, provided that CollaGenex shall have the
final-decision making authority with respect to any clement of a Development Plan.

3.4 Development Diligence. CollaGenex shall use its Commercially Reasonable
Efforts in order to meet the following diligence obligations:

{a) On or before December 31, 2005, CollaGenex shall initiate development
efforts on at least five Products; and

(b) On or before March 31, 2007, CollaGenex shall either (i) demonstrate that
the initial formulation of each such Product maintains stability for a period of six (6) months or
(11) incur at least US$75,000 in costs and expenses per such Product in the development activitics
attempting to demonstrate such stability. For the avoidance of doubt, CollaGenex, in its sole
discretion, reserves the right at any time to abandon development of a Product if CollaGenex has
not yet incurred US$75,000 in development costs and expenses on such Product, provided that
such abandoned Product shall not count as one of the five Products.

(c) Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Parties acknowledge and agree that
CollaGenex has satisficd the diligence obligations of paragraphs (a) and (b) above with respect to
the Clobetaso! Product and therefore CollaGenex shall only be required to satisfy the diligence
obligations in this Section 3.4 on four (4) more Products.

3.5 Regulatory Approvals. CollaGenex shall have sole responsibility for the
applications for Regulatory Approvals, manufacture, marketing and distribution of the Products
as well as the sole discretion as to how to pursue applications for Regulatory Approvals,
manufacture, market and distribute the Products. Skold shall render CollaGenex such assistance,
as may be reasonably requested or required by CollaGenex, regarding such applications for
Regulatory Approval and the manufacture, marketing and/or distribution of Products.

3.6 Intellectual Property Riphts, CollaGenex, at its sole discretion and expense, shall
use Commercially Reasonable Efforts to develop, administrate, prosecute, procure and maintain
all Restoraderm Intellectual Property Rights, including the Restoraderm Patent Rights, (including

-9.
1~PR/1256533.9

ts | ee ne een ye



their issuance, reissuance, reexamination and the defense of any interference, revocation or
Opposition proceedings) claiming the composition of matter or manufacture of the Products or
their use. CollaGenex shall solicit Skold’s advice and review of the nature and text of patent
applications and important prosecution matters related to the Restoraderm Inte}lectual Property
Rights in reasonably sufficient time prior to filings thereof, and CollaGenex shall take into
account Skold’s reasonable comments related thereto.

3.7 Commercialization and Business Plans. CollaGenex shall use its Commercially
Reasonable Efforts to market and sell all Products. CollaGenex shall prepare a plan for
marketing research, marketing activities and sales of the Product (each, a “Business Plan”).
CollaGenex shall provide each Business Plan, as well as any amendments or updates to any such
Business Plan that CollaGenex may make, to Skold for his information, review and comments.

ARTICLE 4
FINANCIAL PROVISIONS

4] Milestone Payments, With respect to each of the first five Products, CollaGenex
shall pay the following milestone payments (the “Milestone Payments”) within thirty (3 Q)
calendar days following the first occurrence of the specified event:

(a) Pilot Stability. One hundred thirty-three thousand U.S. Dollars ($133,000)
upon CollaGenex’s receipt of data, in a form acceptable to CollaGenex, that demonstrates the
initial formulation of the Product is stable for at least six months.

(b) Clinical Batch Stability. One hundred thirty-three thousand U.S. Dollars
($133,000) upon completion of the manufacture of clinical batches of the Product under current
Good Manufacturing Practice conditions with demonstrated stability based on wvelve months of
data at a pre-specified temperature.

(c) Technology Transfer to. a Commercial Facility, One hundred thirty-four
thousand U.S. Dollars ($134,000) upon completion of the manufacturing of three batches of the
Product under current Good Manufacturing Practices and in accordance with requirements for
filing an NDA, irrespective of whether it is intended that an NDA will be filed for such Product,
with demonstrated stability based on twelve months of data ata pre-specified temperature,

Upon achievement of a milestone for a particular Product, any previous Milestone
Payment for that Product for which payment was not made shall be deemed achieved and
payment therefore shall he made. For the avoidance of doubt, the Milestone Payments shall be
due only one time for each of the first five Products with different active ingredients regardless
of how many line extensions, indications or dosage strengths are developed for Products with the
same active ingredient. Milestone Payments arc only payable on the first five Products with
different active ingredients, and no further Milestone Payments shal] be due or owing to Skold
regardicss of the number of Products subsequently developed.

4.2 Royalties. Subject to the provisions of this Article 4, CollaGenex shal! pay Skold
a five percent (5%) royalty on Net Sales of Products covered by a Valid Claim of the
Restoraderm Patent Rights; provided, however, if CollaGenex, in order to make, use, sel! or
otherwise dispose of Products reasonably determines that it must make payments to one or more

-10-

1-PR/1256533.9



Third Parties to obtain license or similar ri ghts, CollaGenex may reduce the rayalties due Skold
by half of the amount of such third party payment, but not to such extent that the royalties duc to
Skold decreases below half the royalty eamed.

4.3 Sublicense Income. CollaGenex shall pay to Skold twenty-five percent (25%) of
all Sublicense Income that CollaGenex receives.

44 Patent Defense Expense Set-Off. Subject to Section 3.6, CollaGenex may
prosecute any Third Party believed to be infringing the Restoraderm Patent Rights and/or defend
and control any action (or counterclaim or any defense asserted in any other CollaGenex’s
action) initiated by a Third Party (such as interference, revocation or opposition proceedings)
alleging the invalidity or unenforceability of any Restoraderm Patent Right (each, a
“Restoraderm Patent Right Action”), To the extent CollaGenex incurs any out-of-pocket costs or
expenses in the filing, prosecution or defense of any such Restoraderm Patent Right Action,
CollaGenex shall be entitled to deduct thirly percent (30%) of any such costs or expenses from
amounts that are otherwise due Skold under this Article 4.

4,5 Statements and Payment. CollaGenex shal! deliver to Skold, within thirty (30)
days after the end of each calendar quarter, a report setting forth for such calendar quarter the
following information for each Product: (1) Net Sales of such Product on a country-by-country
basis; (ii) the basis for any adjustments to the royalties payable on account of sales of such
Product in any country; (iii) the royalties due to Skold on account of sales of such Product; (iv)
the Sublicense Income payments due Skold on account of sales of such Product; and (iv) the
exchange rates used in calculating any of the foregoing. CollaGenex shall make payment in
conjunction with such report, as set forth in Section 4.7.

4.6 Taxes and Withholding. Any payments made by CollaGencx to Skold under this
Agreement shall be reduced by the amount required to be paid or withheld pursuant to any
applicable law, including, but not limited to, United States federal, state or Jocal tax law
(“Withholding Taxes”), Any such W ithholding Taxes required by law to be paid or withheld
shall be an expense of, and borne solely by, Skold. CollaGenex, as applicable, shal] submit to
Skold reasonable proof of payment of the W ithholding Taxes, together with an accounting of the
calculations of such taxes, within thirty ( 30) days afier such Withholding Taxes are remitted to
the proper authority. The Parties will coopcrale reasonably in completing and filing documents
required under the provisions of any applicable tax laws or under any other applicable law in
connection with the making of any required tax payment or withholding payment, or in
connection with any claim to a refund of or credit for any such payment.

4.7 Payrnent Currency; Currency Exchange. All payments made by CollaGenex to
Skold hereunder shall be in United States dollars. With respect to Net Sales invoiced or
expenses incurred in U.S. dollars, the Net Sales or expense amounts and the amounts due to
Skold hereunder shall be expressed in U.S. dollars. With respect to Net Sales invoiced or
expenses incurred in a currency other than U.S. dollars, the Net Sales or expense shall be
expressed in the domestic currency of the entity making the sale or incurring the expense,
together with the U.S. doflar equivalent, calculated using the arithmetic average of the spot rates
on the last Business Day of each month of the calendar quarter in which the Net Sales were made
or the expense was incurred. The “closing mid-point rates” found in the “Dollar spot forward

-]]-
1-PRV1256533.9



against the Dollar” table published by The Financial Times, or any other publication as agreed to
by the Parties, shall be used as the source of spot rates 1o calculate the average as defined in the
preceding sentence, All payments shall be made by wire transfer in U.S. dollars to the credit of
such bank account as shall be designated at least five (5) Business Days in advance by Skold in
writing to CollaGenex.

4.8 Maintenance of Records; Audit. For a period of two (2) years after the date of the
invoice, CollaGenex shal] maintain, and shall require ils respective Affiliates to maintain,
complete and accurate books and records in connection with the sale of Products hereunder, as
necessary lo allow the accurate calculation consistent with generally accepted accounting
principles of the royalties and Sublicense Income payments duc to Skold, including any records
required to cajculate any royalty adjustments hereunder. Once per calendar year, Skold shall
have the right to engage an independent accounting firm reasonably acceptable to CollaGenex,
which shall have the right to examine in confidence the relevant CollaGenex records as may be
reasonably necessary to determine and/or verify the amount of royalties and Sublicense Income
payments due hereunder. Such examination shall be conducted, and CoJlaGenex shall make its
records available, during normal business hours, after at least fifteen (15) days prior written
notice to CollaGenex, as applicable, and shall take place at the facility(ies) where such records
are maintained. Each such examination shall be limited to pertinent books and records for any
year ending not more than twenty-four (24) months prior to the date of request; provided that
Skold shall not be permitted to audit the same period of time more than once. Before permitting
such independent accounting lirm to have access to such books and records, CollaGenex may
require such independent accounting firm and its personnel involved in such audit, to signa
confidentiality agreement (in form and substance reasonably acceptable to CollaGenex) as to any
confidential information which is to be provided to such accounting firm or to which such
accounting firm will have access, while conducting the audit under this paragraph. The Skold
independent accounting firm will prepare and provide to each Party a writlen report stating
whether the royalties and Sublicense Income payment reports submitted and royaltics and
Subliccnse Income payments paid are correct or incorrect and the details concerning any
discrepancies. Such accounting firm may not reveal to Skold any information leamed in the
course of such audit other than the amount of any such discrepancies. Skold agrees to hold in
stnct confidence all information disclosed to it, except to the extent necessary for Skold to
enforce its rights under this Agreement or if disclosure is required by law. In the event there was
an underpayment by CollaGenex hereunder, CollaGenex shall promptly (but in no event later
than thirty (30) days after such Party’s receipt of the independent auditor’s report so correctly
concluding) make payment to Skold of any shortfall. In the event that there was an overpayment
by CollaGenex hereunder, Skold shall promptly (but in no event later than thirty (30) days after
Skold’s receipt of the independent auditor’s report so correctly concluding) refund to
CollaGenex or credit to future royalties, at ColljaGenex’s election, the excess amount. Skold
shall bear the full cost of such audit unless such audit discloses an underreporting by CollaGenex
of more than ten percent (10%) of the aggregate amount of royalties and Sublicense Income
payments in any twelve (12) month period, in which case, CollaGenex shall bear the full cost of
such audit.

-]2-

}-PR/1256533.9



ARTICLE §
REPRESENTATIONS, WARRANTIES AND COVENANTS

5.] Mutual Representations, Warranties and Covenants, Each of Skold and
CollaGenex hereby represents, warrants and covenants to the other Party as follows:

(a) It is duly organized and validly existing, or is a citizen and resident, as
applicable, and in good standing under the laws of such Party’s respective jurisdiction. It has the
requisite legal power and authority to conduct its business as presently being conducted and as
proposed to be conducted by it and is duly qualified to do business in those jurisdictions where
its ownership of property or the conduct of its business requires;

(b) ‘It has all requisite legal power and authority to enter into this Agreement
and to perform the obligations contemplated hereunder. All actions on its part necessary for (i)
the authorization, execution, delivery and performance by it of this Agreement, and (ii) the
consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby, have been duly taken;

(c) This Agreement is a legally valid and binding obligation of it, enforceable
against it in accordance with its terms (except in all cases as such enforceability may be limited
by applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium, or similar laws affecting the
enforcement of creditors’ rights generally and except that the availability of the equitable remedy
of specific performance or injunctive relief is subject to the discretion of the court or other
tribunal before which any proceeding may be brought);

(d) None of the execution and delivery of this Agreement, the consummation
of the transactions provided for herein or contemplated hereby, or the fulfillment by it of the
terms hereof or thereof, will (with or without notice or passage of time or both) (1D conflict with
or result in a breach of any provision of any certificate or articles of incorporation or formation,
by-laws, statutes, operating agrecment or other governing documents of it, (ii) result in a default,
constitute a default under, give rise to any right of termination, cancellation or acceleration, or
require any consent or approval (other than approvals that have heretofore been obtained) of any
governmental authority or under any of the terms, conditions or provisions of any material note,
bond, mortgage, indenture, Joan, arrangement, license, agreement, lease or other instrument or
obligation to which it is a party or by which its assets may be bound, (iii) violate any Jaw, rule or
regulation of any governmental authority or stock exchange on which such Party’s securities arc
listed applicable to it or any of its assets, or (iv) any other contractual or other obligations of the
respective Party; and

(ec) it shall comply in all material respects with all Jaws, rules and regulations
applicable to its performance under this Agreement.

9.2 Additional Representations, Warranties and Covenants of Skold. Skold hereby
further represents, warrants and covenants to CollaGenex that:

(a) There are no existing or threatened actions, suits or other proceedings
pending against him with respect to Restoraderm Iniellectual Property Rights and, Skold has not
received written notice of any threatened claims or litigation secking to invalidate the
Restoraderm Patent Rights;

-|3-
1-PR/1236533.9



(b)  Skold is not aware of any facts from which it reasonably concludes that
any of the Restoraderm Patent Rights are invalid or that their exercise would infrmge patent
rights of Third Party(ies);

(c) Skold holds good title to and is the legal and beneficial owner and has full
and unencumbered nights to the Restoraderm Intellectual Property, free and clear of all liens,
security interests, charges and other encumbrances of any kind, and Skold has obtained the
assignment of al] interests and all rights of any and all Third Parties (including employees) with
respect to the Restoraderm Patent Rights;

(d) Skold is the exclusive owner of all right, title and interest in the
Restoraderm Intellectual Property Rights;

(c) Skold will perform his obligations under this Agreement in a professional,
diligent and workmanlike manner in accordance with the standards which would be used by a
physical person of similar financial strength, business experience and other relevant factors; and

(f) to the best of Skold’s knowledge, CollaGenex’s use of the Restoraderm
Intellectual Property does not and will not infringe the intellectual property rights of any Third
Party, and Skold has no knowledge that any Third Party is infringing any of the Restoraderm
Intellectual Property.

5.3. Disclaimer of Warranties. EXCEPT AS OTHERWISE EXPRESSLY
PROVIDED IN THIS AGREEMENT OR MANDATED BY APPLICABLE LAW (WITHOUT
THE RIGHT TO WAIVE OR DISCLAIM), NEITHER PARTY MAKES ANY
REPRESENTATION OR WARRANTY WITH RESPECT TO THE PRODUCTS, ANY
TECHNOLOGY, GOODS, SERVICES, RIGHTS, SUCCESS OR POTENTIAL SUCCESS OF
THE DEVELOPMENT, COMMERCIALIZATION, MARKETING OR SALE OF ANY
PRODUCT OTHER SUBJECT MATTER OF THIS AGREEMENT AND HEREBY
DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES, CONDITIONS OR REPRESENTATIONS OF ANY
KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
PERFORMANCE, MERCHANTABILITY, SATISFACTORY QUALITY, FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR NON-INFRINGEMENT OF THIRD PARTY INTELLECTUAL
PROPERTY RIGHTS.

ARTICLE 6
CONFIDENTIALITY, PUBLICATION AND PUBLIC ANNOUNCEMENTS

6.1 Confidentiality. Except to the extent expressly authorized by this Agreement or
otherwise agreed in writing, CollaGenex and Skold agree that, until seven (7) years after the
termination of this Agreement, each of CollaGenex or Skold, upon receiving or learning of any
Confidential Information of the other Party, shall keep such Confidential Information
confidential and otherwise shall not disclose or use such Confidential Information for any
purpose other than as provided for in this Agreement. The Receiving Party shall advise its
employees and consyltanis who might have access to the Disclosing Party’s Confidential
Information of the confidential nature thereof and agrees that its employees shall be bound by the
terms of this Agreement. The Receiving Party shall not disclose any Confidential Information of

-14-
1-PR/1256533.9



the Disclosing Party to any employee who does not have a need for such information. Jt is
acknowledged and agreed that the Purchased Assets shall be the Confidential Information of
CollaGenex.

6.2 Authorized Disclosure. Notwithstanding the foregoing, each of CollaGenex and
Skold may disclose Confidential Information of the other Party to a Third Party to the extent
such disclosure is reasonably necessary to exercise the rights granted to or retained by it under
this Agreement in filing or prosecuting patent applications, prosecuting or defending litigation,
complying with applicable governmental regulations, submitting information to tax or other
governmental authorities (including Regulatory Authorities), or conducting clinical trials
hereunder with respect to Products, provided that if'a Party is required by law to make any such
disclosure of the Disclosing Party's Confidential Information, to the extent it may legally do so,
it will give reasonable advance notice to the Disclosing Party of such disclosure and, save to the
extent inappropriate in the case of patent applications or otherwise, will use its reasonable efforts
to secure confidential treatment of such Confidential Information prior to its disclosure (whether
through protective orders or otherwise). [f the Disclosing Party has not filed a patent application
with respect to such Confidential Information, it may require the Receiving Party to delay the
proposed disclosure (to the extent the disclosing party may legally do so), for up to ninety (90)
days, to allow for the filing of such an application.

6.3 Return of Confidential Information, Upon termination of this Agreement, the
Receiving Party shall promptly return all of the Disclosing Party’s Confidential Information,
including all reproductions and copies thereof in any medium, except that the Receiving Party
may rctain one copy for its legal files.

6.4 Unauthorized Use. If either Party becomes aware or has knowledge of any
unauthorized use or disclosure of the other Party's Confidential | nformation, it shall promptly
notify the disclosing Parly of such unauthorized use or disclosure.

6.5 Public Announcements, Except as set forth in press releases published by
CollaGenex and for filing a copy of this Agreement by CollaGenex with the Securities and
Exchange Commission, to the extent CollaGenex determines to make such a filing, neither Party
shall make any public announcement regarding this Agreement. The Parties agree that
CollaGenex may issue press releascs announcing the execution of this Agreement or the
activities and results hereunder in CollaGenex’s standard form, provided that such press releases
shal] not contain the financial terms of Confidential Information of Skold, unless otherwise
required by applicable law.

6.6  Injunctive Relief. Each Receiving Party acknowledges that the Disclosing Party
or any other owner of the Confidential Information (which may include Affiliates of
CollaGenex) would suffer irreparable harm if the Receiving Party were to violate the
confidentiality provisions of this Agreement and therefore the Recciving Party agrees that, in
addition to any other remedies available to it, the Disclosing Party shall be entitled (without the
requirement of posting any bond) to obtain from a court of competent jurisdiction an injunction
restraining the violation of this Agreement.

-15-
1-PR/1256533.9

ee ne | ee ree



ARTICLE 7
INDEMNIFICATION

7.1 CollaGenex. CollaGenex shal! defend Skold and its Affiliates at CollaGenex’s
cost and expense, and will indemnify and hold Skold and its Affiliates and their respective
dircctors, officers, employees and agents harmless from and against any and all Losses incurred
in connection with or arising out of any Third Party claim (a “Third Party Claim”) relating to (i)
any material breach by CollaGenex of any of its representations, warranties, covenants or
obligations pursuant to this Agreement, or (ii) any gross negligence or willful misconduct of
CollaGenex; provided, however, that in all cases referred to in this Section 7.1, CollaGenex shall
have no liability to Skald for any Losses to the extent that such Losses were caused by any item
for which Skold is required to indemnify CollaGenex pursuant to Section 7.2.

7.2. Skold. Skold agrees to defend CollaGenex and its Affiliates at Skold’s cost and
expense, and will indemnify and hold CollaGenex and its Affiliates and their respective
directors, officers, employees and agents harmless from and against any and all Losses incurred
in connection with or arising out of any Third Party Claim relating to (i) any material breach by
Skold of any of its representations, warranties, covenants or obligations pursuant to this
Agreement, or (11) any gross negligence or willful misconduct of Skold, provided, however, that
in al] cases referred to in this Section 7.2, Skold shall have no liability to CollaGenex for any
Losses to the extent that such Losses were caused by any item for which CollaGenex is required
to indemnify Skold pursuant to Section 7.).

73 Indemnification Procedures.

(a) In the case of a Third Party Clairn made by any Person who is not a Party
to this Agreement (or an Affiliate thercof) as to which a Party (the “Indemnitor”) may be
obligated to provide indemnification pursuant to this Agreement, such Party seeking
indemnification hereunder (“Indemnitece”) will notify the Indemnitor in writing of the ‘Third
Party Claim (and specifying in reasonable detail the factual basis for the Third Party Claim and
to the extent known, the amount of the Third Party Claim) reasonably promptly after becoming
aware of such Third Party Claim; provided, however, that failure to give such notification will
not affect the indemnification provided hereunder except to the extent the Indemnitor shall have
been actually prejudiced as a result of such failure.

(b) ifa Third Party Claim is made against an Indemnilee and the Indemnitor
acknowledges in wrifing its obligation to indemnify the Indemnitee therefor, the Indemnitor will
be entitled, within one hundred twenty (120) days after receipt of written notice from the
Indemnitee of the commencement or assertion of any such Third Party Claim, to assume the
defense thereof (at the expense of the Indemnitor) with counsel selected by the Indemnitor and
reasonably satisfactory to the Indemmnitee, for so Jong as the Indemnitor is conducting a good
faith and diligent defense. Should the Indemnitor so elect to assume the defense of a Third Party
Claim, the Indemnitor will not be liable to the Indemnitee for any legal or other expenses
subsequently incurred by the Indemmitee in connection with the defense thereof: provided, that if
under applicable standards of professional conduct a conflict of interest exists between the
Indemnitor and the Indemnitee in respect of such claim, such Indemnitee shal] have the ri ght to
employ separate counsel (which shall be reasonably satisfactory to the Indemnitor) to represent

-16-

1-PR/1256533.9



such Indemnitee with respect to the matters as lo which a conflict of interest exists and in that
event the reasonable fees and expenses of such separate counsel shall be paid by such
Indemnitor; provided, further, that the Indemnitor shall only be responsible for the reasonable
fees and expenses of one separate counsel for such Indemnitee. If the Indemnitor assumes the
defense of any Third Party Claim, the Indemnitee shall have the right to participate in the
delcnse thereof and to employ counsel, at its own expense, separate from the counsel employed
by the Indemnitor, If the Indemnitor assumes the defense of uny Third Party Claim, the
Indemnitor will promptly supply to the Indemnitee copies of all correspondence and documents
rclating to or in connection with such Third Party Claim and keep the Indemnitee informed of
developments relating to or in connection with such Third Party Claim, as may be reasonably
requested by the Indemnitee (including, without limitation, providing to the Indemnitec on
reasonable request updates and summaries as to the status thereof). If the Indemnitor chooses to
defend a Third Party Claim, all Indemnitees shall reasonably coopcrate with the Indemnitor in
the defense thereof (such cvopcration to be at the expense, including reasonable legal fees and
expenses, of the Indemnitor). If the Indemnitor does not elect to assume contro] of the defense
of'any Third Party Claim within the one hundred twenty (120) day period set forth above, or if
such good faith and diligent defense is not being or ceases to be conducted by the Indemnitor, the
Indemnitee shall have the right, at the expense of the Indemunitor, after three (3) Business Days
notice to the Indemnitor of ils intent to do so, to undertake the defense of the Third Party Claim
for the account of the Indemnitor (with counsel selected by the Indemnitee), and to compromise
or settle such Third Party Claim, exercising reasonable business jud BMeN.

(c) If the Indernnitor acknowledges in writing its obligation to indemnify the
Indemnilee for a Third Party Claim, the Indemnitee will agree 10 any settlement, compromise or
discharge of such Third Party Claim that the Indemnitor may recommend that by its terms
obligates the Indemniter to pay the full amount of Losses (whether through settlement or
otherwise) in connection with such Third Party Claim and unconditionally and irrevocably
releases the Indermnitee completely from all liability in connection with such Third Party Claim,
provided, however, that, without the Indemnitee's prior written consent, the Indemnitor shall not
consent to any settlement, compromise or discharge (including the consent to entry of any
judgment), and the Indemmitec may refuse in good faith to agree to any such settlement,
compromise or discharge, that provides for injunctive or other nonmonetary relief affecting the
Indemnitee. [f the Indemnitor acknowledges in wriling its obligation to indemnify the
Indemnitee for a Third Party Claim, the Indemnitee shal] not (unless required by law) admit any
liability with respect to, or settle, compromise or discharge, such Third Party Claim without the
Indemnitor’s prior written consent (which consent shal! not be unreasonably withheld).

7.4 Insurance. Immediately upon the first administration of a Product to a human by
CollaGenex, its Affiliates or its licensees, and for a period of five (5) years after the expiration of
this Agreement or the earlier termination thereof, CollaGenex shall obtain and/or maintain at its
sole cost and expense, product liability insurance. Such product liabi lity insurance shall insure
both Parties against all liability, including personal injury, physical injury, or property damage
urising out of the manufacture, sale, distribution, or marketing of any Produc!. Upon the
reasonable written request of Skold, CollaGenex shall provide written proof of the existence of
such insurance.

-|7-
1-PR/1256533.9



7.5 Limitation of Liabilities. INNO EVENT WILL EITHER PARTY BE LIABLE
TO ANY OF THE OTHER PARTY FOR PUNITIVE, EXEMPLARY, SPECIAL, INDIRECT,
INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION
LOST PROFITS, BUSINESS OR GOODWILL) ATTRIBUTABLE TO ANY BREACH OR
DEFAULT BY SUCH PARTY UNDER THIS AGREEMENT, EXCEPT FOR A PARTY’S
INDEMNIFICATION OBLIGATIONS UNDER THIS ARTICLE 7 WITH RESPECT TO
THIRD PARTY CLAIMS, IN NO EVENT WILL EITHER PARTY'S LIABILITY EXCEED
THE AMOUNTS PAID UNDER THIS AGREEMENT, THE LIMITATIONS OF LIABILITY
CONTAINED SHALL SURVIVE ANY FAILURE OF THE ESSENTIAL PURPOSE OF A
LIMITED OR EXCLUSIVE REMEDY SET FORTH HEREIN.

ARTICLE 8
TERM AND TERMINATION

8.1 Term. Unless earlier terminated by mutual agreement of the Parties in writing or
pursuant to the provisions of this Article 8, this Agreement will continue in full force and effect
ona country-by-country and Product-by-Product basis until the obligation to pay royalties and
Sublicense Income payments with respect to the sale of a Product in such country expires (the

8.2 Voluntary Termination by CollaGenex. Notwithstanding any other provision
herein, CollaGenex may terminate this Agreement at any time after March 31, 2007.

8.3 Material Breach, Upon a material breach of this Agreement by CollaGenex on
the one hand, or Skold on the other hand (in such capacity, the “Breaching Party”), the other
Party (in such capacity, the “Non-Breaching Party”) may provide written notice (a “Breach
Notice”) to the Breaching Party specifying the matenal breach. If the Breaching Party fails to
cure such material breach during the ninety (90) day period following the date on which the
Breach Notice is provided (or, if applicable, such Jonger period, but not to exceed one hundred
and eighty (180) days, as would be reasonably necessary for a diligent party to cure such
material breach, provided the Breaching Party has commenced and continues its diligent efforts
to cure during the initial ninety (90) day period), then the Non-Breaching Party may terminate
this Agreement on a Product-by-Product and country-by-country basis with respect to the
Product and country to which the breach relates.

8.4 Continuing Rights of Sublicensees. Upon any termination of this Agreement,
each sublicense previously granted by CollaGenex, or any of its Affiliates, to any Person that is
not an Affiliate of CollaGenex (each, an “Independent Sublicensee”) shall remain in effect and
shall become a direct license or sublicense, as the case may be, of such rights by Skold to such
Independent Sublicensce, subject to the Independent Sublicensee agreeing in writing to assume
CollaGenex’s terms, conditions and obligations to Skold under this Agreement as they pertain to
(he sublicensed rights, To the extent any Independent Sublicensee was obligated to pay any
royalties or milestones to CollaGenex under the terms of the sublicense agreement with such
Independent Sublicensee, CollaGenex shall be entitled to receive fifty percent (50%) of such
royalty or milestone payments that are paid to Skold.

8.5 Effect of Termination.

-18-

L-PR/1256533.9



(a) Termination by Skold for CollaGenex’s Breach. In the event this
Agreement is terminated by Skold for a material breach of CollaGenex pursuant to Section 8.3,
on a Product-by-Product and/or country-by-country basis, as applicable, the following provisions
shal] apply:

(a) CollaGenex shal] promptly return and/or provide to Skold all
Confidential Information of Skold (or if such termination is only with respect to a Product and/oz
country, shal] return and/or provide all Confidential Information with respect to such Product
and/or country), provided that CollaGenex shall be entitled to retain a copy for archival purposes
or as otherwise required by law;

(it) all amounts due and payable hereunder by CollaGenex to Skold
shall be immediately paid (or if such termination is only with respect to a Product, al! amounts
due and payable with respect to such terminated Product shall be immediately paid),

(ui) CollaGenex shall transfer to Skold without any payment the
Purchased Assets and Additional Records relating to such terminated Product and/or country.
Such transfer shall be accompanied by documentation, data and information related to the
Purchased Assets that can be transferred by CollaGenex; provided that if the Purchased Asset
relates to a Product or a country that is not being terminated, CollaGenex shall not transfer such
Purchased Asset but shall grant to Skold an exclusive license with respect to such Purchased
Asset in connection with such terminated Product and/or country; and

(iv) In the event that CollaGenex, pursuant to this Section 8.5, transfers
its rights to the Purchased Assets to Skold, then CollaGenex's indemnification obligations
pursuant to Section 7.1 shall survive for any Losses that arise from the development or
commercialjzation of the Products before the date of transfer.

(b) Voluntary Termination by CollaGenex. If CollaGenex terminates this
Agreement in whole, pursuant to Section 8.2, the following provisions shall be applicable:

(i) CollaGenex shall promptly retum and/or provide to Skold all
Confidential Information of Skold hereunder, provided that CollaGenex shall be entitled to retain
a copy for archival purposes or as otherwise required by law;

(1) CollaGenex shall, within six (6) months, discontinue sales of any
then-existing terminated Product inventory, if not terminated by Skold for a material breach of
CollaGenex pursuant to Section 8.3:

ii)  CollaGenex shall transfer to Skold the Purchased Assets and
Additional Records relating to such terminated Products, Such transfer shall be accompanied by
documentation, dala and information related to the Purchased Assets that can be transferred by
CollaGenex:

{iv) In the event that CollaGenex, pursuant to this Section 8.5, transfers
its rights to the Purchased Assets to Skold, then CollaGenex’s indemni fication obligations
pursuant to Section 7.1 shall survive for any Losses that arise from the development or
conunercialization of the Products before the date of transfer: and

-]9-
1-PR/1256533.9



(v) all amounts due and payable by CollaGenex to Skold shal! be
immediately paid.

(c) Termination by CollaGenex for Skald’s Breach. In the event this
Agreement is terminated by CollaGenex for a material breach of Skold pursuant to Section 8.3,
on a Product-by-Product and/or country-by-country basis, as applicable, the following provisions
shall apply:

(i) Skold shall promptly return and/or provide to CollaGenex all
Confidential Information of CollaGenex hereunder (or if such termination is only with respect to
a Product and/or country, shal] return and/or provide all Confidential Information with respect lo
such Product and/or country), provided that Skold shall be entitled to retain a copy for archival
purposes or as otherwise required by law;

CollaGenex shall no longer be required to pay any royalties ar Sublicense Income payments to
Skold.

(d) Accrued Rights: Surviving Obligations. Unless explicitly provided
otherwise in this Agreement, termination, rclinquishiment or expiration of this Agreement for any
reason shall be without prejudice to any rights, which shall have accrued to the benefit to any
Party prior to such termination, relinguishment or expiration, including damages arising from
any breach hereunder. Such termination, relinquishment or expiration shall not relieve any Party
from obligations which are expressly indicated to survive termination or expiration of the
Agreement, including, without limitation, those obligations set forth in Sections 4.8, 6.1, 6.2, 6.3,
6.6, 8.4, and 8.5 and Articles 7 and 9,

ARTICLE 9
MISCELLANEOUS

9.1 Dispute Resolution; Mediation. Any dispute, controversy or claim arising out of
or relating to this Agreement, or the breach, termination, or invalidity thereof (each, a “Dispute”)
shall first be referred by the Parties to their respective senior-level executives, or their designecs,
{or attempted resolution through good faith negotiations. In the event that such persons cannot
resolve the Dispute within thirty (30) days following either Party’s written request to initiate
such negotiations, cither Party may, by written notice to the other, require that the Dispute be
Teferred to non-binding mediation administered by the American Arbitration Association (the
“AAA”) in accordance with its then-current Commercial Mediation Rules. The presiding
mediator shall have experience with disputes involving the technology that is the subjcct matter
of this Agreement, The mediation shall be conducted in the English language and all mediation
sessions shall be held in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. The Parties shall each be responsible for
one-half of any fees or other amounts payable to the AAA or the mediator, and each Party shal}
bear its own attorneys’ fees and other expenses in connection with the mediation, If efforts at
mediation are unsuccessful in resolving the Dispute within thirly (30) days after the first
mediation session, either Party may pursue any and all legal or equitable remedies available to it,
subject to the remaining provisions of this Agreement. The Parties agree that the procedures set
forth in this paragraph shall be the sole and exclusive means of resolving any and all Disputes.
Notwithstanding the foregoing and subject to the remaining provisions of this Agreement, either

3 20en
1-PR/1256533.9



Party may seek injunctive or other equitable relief in a court of competent jurisdiction pending
the outcome of any negotiations or mediation conducted hereunder.

9.2 Assignment. This Agreement may not be assigned or otherwise transferred (in
whole or in part, whether voluntarily, by operation of law or otherwise) by either Party without
the prior written consent of the other Party (which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld);
provided, however, that either Party may assign this Agreement, in whole or in part, to any of its
Affiliates provided that the assigning Party guarantees the performance of this Agreement by
such Affiliate; and provided further, that either Party may assign this Agreement to a successor
to all or substantially all of the assets or line of business to which this Agreement relates whether
by merger, sale of stock, sale of assets or other similar transaction. This Agreement shall be
binding upon, and subject to the terms of the foregoing sentence, inure to the benefit of the
Parties hereto, their permitted successors, legal representatives and assigns.

9.3. Further Actions. Each Party agrees lo execute, acknowledge and deliver such
further instruments, and to do all such other acts, as may be necessary or appropriate in order to
carry out the purposes and intent of this Agreement.

9.4 Force Majeure. Neither Party shall be liable to the other Party for loss or
damages, or shall have any right to terminate this Agreement for any default or delay attributable
to any Force Majeure, provided that the Party affected gives prompt notice of any such cause to
the other Party. The Party giving such notice shall thereupon be excused from such of its
obligations hereunder for so long as it is thereby disabled from performing such obligations;
provided, however, that such affected Party promptly commences and continues to use its
Commercially Reasonable Efforts to cure such disablement as soon as practicable.

9.5 Notices. Notices to Skold shall be addressed to:

Thomas Skold

Bjorno Gard

S-76] 41 Norrtalje

Sweden

Facsimile No.: (0046) 176 22 4420

Notices to CollaGenex shall be addressed to:

CollaGenex Phannaccuticals, Inc.
41 University Drive, Suite 200
Newtown, Pennsylvania 18940
United States of America
Attention: Chief Executive Officer
Facsimile No.: (001) 215 579 8577

Either Party may change the address to which notices shall be sent by giving notice lo the other
Party in the manner herein provided. Any notice required or provided for by the terms of this
Agreement shall be in writing and shall be (i) sent by registered or certified mail, return receipt
requested, postage prepaid, (ii) sent via a reputable overnight courier service, or (iii) sent by
facsimile transmission, in cach case properly addressed in accordance with the paragraphs above.

-21-
1-PR/1256533.9



The effective date of any notice shall be the actual date of reccipt by the Party receiviny the
same.

9.6 Amendment. No amendment, modification or supplement of any provision of this
Agreement shall be valid or effective unless made in writing and si gned by a duly authorized
olficer of each Party.

9.7 Waiver. No provision of this Agreement shall be waived by any act, omission or
knowledge of a Party or its agents or employees except by an instrument in writing expressly
waiving such provision and signed by a duly authorized officer of the waiving Party.

9.8 Counterparts; Facsimile Signatures. This Agreement may be executed in
counterparts and such counterparts taken together shall constitute one and the same agreement.
This Agreement may be executed by facsimile signatures, which signatures shall have the same
force and effect as original signatures.

9.9 Descriptive Headings. The descriptive headings of this Agreement are for
convenience only, and shall be of no force or effect in construing or Interpreting any of the
provisions of this Agreement.

9.10 Governing Law, This Agreement shall be governed and construed in accordance
with the laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, without giving effect to any choicc of law
provisions thercof. Each Party hereby submits itself for the purpose of this Apreement and any
controversy arising hereunder to the exclusive jurisdiction of the state and federal courts located
in the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, and any courts of appeal therefrom, and waives any
objection on the grounds of lack of jurisdiction (including, without limitation, venue) to the
exercise of such jurisdiction over it by any such courts,

9.11 Severability. If any provision hereof should be held invalid, illegal or
unenforceable in any respect in any jurisdiction, the Parties hereto shall Substitute, by mutual
consent, valid provisions for such invalid, illegal or unenforceable provisions which valid
provisions in their economic effect are sufficiently similar to the invalid, illegal or unenforceable
provisions that it can be reasonably assumed that the Parties would have entered into this
Agrecment with such valid provisions. In case such valid provisions cannot be apreed upon, the
invalid, illegal or unenforceable provisions of this Agreement shall not affect the validity of this
Agreement as a whole, unless the invalid, illegal or unenforceable provisions are of such
essential importance to this Agreement that it is to be reasonably assumed that the Parties would
not have entered into this Agreement without the invalid, illegal or unenforceable provisions.

9.12 Entire Agreement of the Parties. This Agreement hereby, together with the
Schedules and Exhibits, constitute and contain the complete, final and exclusive understanding
and agreement of the Parties and cancels and supersedes any and all prior negotiations,
correspondence, understandings and agreements (including the Original Agreement) whether
oral or written, between the Parties respecting the subject matter hereof and thereof; provided
thal nothing in this Agrecment shall replace, supercede, cancel or modify any prior agreements
or assignments between the Parties that have been filed with the United States Patent and
Trademark Office.

~ 22 -
{-PP/1256533,9



9.13 Independent Contractors. The relationship between the Parties created by this
Agreement is one of independent contractors and ncither Party shal] have the power or authority
to bind or obligate the other except as expressly set forth in this Agreement,

9.14 Expenses. Unless otherwise provided herein, all costs and expenses incurred in
connection with this Agreement and the transactions contemplated hereby shall be paid by the
Party which shall have incurred the same and the other Party shall have no liability relating
thereto.

9.15 No ‘third Party Beneficiaries. No person or entity other than the Parties hereto
and their respective Affiliates, successors and permitted assigns shall be deemed an intended
beneficiary hereunder or have any right to enforce any obligation of this Agreement.

9.16 No Strict Construction. This Agreement has been prepared jointly and shal] not
be strictly construed against either Parly.

{Signature Page Immediately Follows]

-23-
1-PR/1256533.9



SENT BY: PONSUS PHAAMA AB;
AUG. 20. 2004 9:50AM

O176 224420; 20-AUIG-O4 17:08; PAGE 2/3
COLLAGENEX PHARMA 2155793577 = NO.998 =P. 29

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, duly authorized representatives of the Parties have
duly executed this Alrcement as of the Effective Date.

mee.
CLE) LAL

Name —— Skold (“

COLLAGENEX PHARMACEUTICALS INC.

Name: Colin Stewart
Title: Chief Brecutlve Officer aff President

SIONATURE PAGE TO ASSET PURCHASE AND PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT

L-PR/12$6$33.9



SCHEDULE 1.22

Patent Rights

The following Patent Rights have been previously assigned by Skold to CollaGenex.
Skold’s representations, warranties, covenants and obligations set forth herein shall also apply to
such previously assigned Patent Rights, including those obligations set forth in Sections 2.5 and
5.2 of the Agreement.
¢ Provisional application filed on March 13, 2002 (Application Serial No. 60/365,059)

e U.S. Application Serial No. 10/388,371 filed on March 13, 2003

e Intemational application Serial No. PCT/US03/07752 filed on March 13, 2003

1-PR/1256533.9