

EMPLOYMENT PRACTICES LIABILITY INSURANCE POLICY
DECLARATIONS

THIS POLICY IS WRITTEN ON A CLAIMS MADE AND REPORTED BASIS AND COVERS ONLY CLAIMS
FIRST MADE AGAINST THE INSUREDS DURING THE POLICY PERIOD OR THE EXTENDED REPORTING
PERIOD, IF APPLICABLE, AND REPORTED IN WRITING TO THE INSURER PURSUANT TO THE TERMS
HEREIN. THE LIMIT OF LIABILITY AVAILABLE TO PAY JUDGMENTS OR SETTLEMENTS SHALL BE
REDUCED AND MAY BE TOTALLY EXHAUSTED BY AMOUNTS INCURRED AS DEFENSE COSTS. THE
AMOUNT AVAILABLE TO PAY DEFENSE COSTS IS SUBJECT TO A MAXIMUM AGGREGATE LIMIT OF
LIABILITY. PLEASE READ THIS POLICY CAREFULLY.

| COMPANY: Axis insurance Company | |POLICY NUMBER: MNN 747114/01/2071 |
tem 1, Parent Company: tem 2. Policy Period:
Financial Industry Requlatory Authority a. Inception Date March 31. 2011
9509 Key West Avenue ; b. Expiration Date March 31.2012

Rockville, MD 20850
Attn: Office of the General Counsel — Contracts Group Both dates at 12:01 a.m. atthe
address listed in Itern 1

Item 3. Limits of Liability:
Maximum aggregate Limit of Liability for all Claims under all Section |.

insuring Agreements combined $ 10.000,000
tem 4. Retention: Each Claim 3 250,000

Item $6. Extended Reporting Period:

(A) Additional Premium: 125 percent of annualized premium for the Policy Perlod

(B) Extended Reporting Period: One Year

item 6. Punitive Damages Coverage included: Yes J No[]

Item 7. Third Party Claim Coverage included: Yes E] No CE]

item. 8. Terrorism Coverage:

Coverage Purchased by Parent Company: Yes X No [7]
if Yes, Terrorism Coverage Premium: $ No Separate Additional Premium

Item 9. Pending or Prior Claim Date:
Section |. {insuring Agreement A: 03/31/03
Section |. insuring Agreement B: 03/31/03

Item 10. Continuity Date: 03/31/03

EP 0102 (Ed. 0707) Page 1 of 2 Printed in U.S.A.


item 11. Notices to insurer
Notice Of Claim(s) To Be Sent To: All Other Notices To Be Sent To:
Axis Financial Insurance Solutions Claims Axis Financial Insurance Solutions
Address: Connell Corporate Park Address: Connell Corporate Park
300 Connell Drive 300 Connell Drive
P_O. Box 357 P.O. Box 357
Berkeley Heights, NJ 07922-0357 Berkeley Heights, NJ 07922-0357
Facsimile: (908) 508-4389 Facsimile: (908) 508-4301
Toll-Free Number: (866) 259-5435 Toll-Free Number: (866) 259-5435
tem 12. Endorsements Effective at Inception: EP4138(Ed. 0707), EP1003(Ed. 6/2003), EPL1042(Ed.0508)

The Insurer has caused this Policy to be signed and attested by its authorized officers, but it shall not be valid
unless aiso signed by another duly authorized representative of the insurer.

WALL _ June 3, 2011

Authorized Representatiye” Date

Afegy W dpecen Mi.
Gregory W. Springer Andrew Weissert
President Secretary

EP 0102 (Ed. 0707) Page 2 of Z Printed in U.S.A.


EMPLOYMENT PRACTICES LIABILITY INSURANCE POLICY

In consideration cf payment of the premium, and in reliance on all statements made in the Application for this
Policy and ail information provided to the Insurer, and subject to all the provisions of this Policy, the insurer
designated as such in the Declarations and the Parent Company, on behaif of all Insureds, agree as follows:

L,

INSURING AGREEMENTS

The Insurer shall pay in connection with a Wrongful Act which takes place before or during the Policy
Period ail Loss on behaif of the Insureds arising from a:

A, Claim for a Wrongful Employment Act made against any Insured by or on behalf of any
Employee: or

B. Third Party Claim for a Wrongful Third Party Act made against any Insured, but solely if Third.
Party Claim Coverage is included in Item 7 in the Declarations:

provided that the Claim is first made against the Insureds during the Policy Period or the Extended
Reporting Period, if applicable, and reported in writing te the Insurer as soon as practicable after any
Insured first becomes aware of such Claim, but in no event later than sixty (60) days after the expiration
of the Policy Period or the Extended Reporting Period, if applicable.

COVERAGE EXTENSIONS
A. Spouses

if a Claim made against an insured Individual includes a claim against the insured individual's
lawful spouse solely by reason of (1) such spouse's status as a spouse of the Insured Individual, or
(2) such spouse's ownership interest in property from which the claimant seeks recovery for the
Wrongful Acts of the Insured Individual, all loss which such Spouse becomes legally obligated to
pay on account of such claim shall be treated for purposes of this Policy as Loss which the Insured
Individual is legally obligated to pay on account of the Claim made against the Insured Individual.
Such loss shail be covered under this Policy only if and to the extent that such loss would be covered
under this Policy if incurred by the Insured individual.

The coverage extension afforded by this Subsection does not apply to any Claim alleging any
wrongful act or omission by an Insured Individual’s spouse. The term “spouse” as used in this
paragraph shall include any natural person qualifying as a domestic partner under the provisions of
any applicable federal, state or local law in the United States of America.

B. Estates and Legai Representatives

Coverage under this Policy shall extend to a Claim made against the estates, heirs, legal
representatives or assigns of an Insured Individual who is deceased or against the legal
representatives or assigns of an Insured Individual who is incompetent, insolvent or bankrupt for the
Wrongful Acts of such Insured Individual.

The coverage extension afforded by this Subsection does not apply to any Claim alleging any
wrongful act or omission by the Insured Individual's estates, heirs, legal representatives or assigns.

C. Extended Reporting Period

if the Insurer chooses not to renew or the Parent Company cancels this Policy, the Policyholder

or the Insured Individuals shall have the right, upon payment of the additional premium required
by the Insurer in Item 5(A) in the Declarations, to a one year Extended Reporting Period following
the termination of the Policy Period, but only with respect to Wrongful Acts occurring prior to

the effective date of such cancellation or nonrenewal.

EP 0001 (Ed. 1005) Page 1 of 13 Printed in U.S.A.


The right to purchase the Extended Reporting Period shall not be available in the event of
nonrenewal or cancellation of this Policy resulting from the failure to Day any premium due. The
offer of renewal terms, conditions or premiums different from those in effect prior to renewal shall
not constitute a refusai to renew.

This right to elect any Extended Reporting Period shall lapse unless written notice of the election,
together with payment of the additional premium due, is given by the Insuredand is received by
the Insurer within sixty (60) days following the effective date of cancellation, or nonrenewal as
appropriate. Coverage under the Extended Reporting Period shall apply only to a Claim that is
first made against the Insured during the Extended Reporting Period, and any Claim made
during the Extended Reporting Period shall be deemed to have been made during the
immediately preceding Policy Period. The Limit of Liability applicable to tha Extended Reporting
Period shail be part of, and not in addition to, the Limit of Liability for the immediately preceding
Policy Period.

LHL. DEFINITIONS

A.

Application means each and every signed application, any attachments to such applications. other
matenais submitted therewith or incorporated therein and any other such documents submitted in
connection with the underwriting of this policy or the underwriting of any other employment practices
lability policy issued by the Insurer, or any of its affillates, of which this policy is a renewal,
replacement or which succeed it in time, as well as any publicly available documents that are filed by
the Policyholder prior to the inception date of this Policy with the Department of Labor or the Equal
Employment Opportunity Commission (or any similar federal, state, local, or foreign regulatory
agency).

Benefits means perquisites, fringe benetits, deferred compensation or payments (including insurance
premiums) in connection with an employee benefit plan and any other payment to or for the benefit of
an employee arising out of the employment relationship. Benefits shall not include salary, wages,
commissions or non-deferred cash incentive compensation.

Breach of Employment Contract means a breach of any oral, written or implied employment
contract.

D. Claim means:

1. the receipt by any Insured of:
a. a written demand against any Insured for monetary or non-monetary relief:

b. a civil proceeding against any Insured commenced by the service of a complaint or -
similar pleading;

a formal, administrative, investigative or regulatory proceeding by or before the Equal
Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC), the Office of Federal Contract
Compliance Programs (OFCCP), er a similar formal proceeding before another federal,
state or other governmental agency against any Insured commenced by @ notice of
charges, formal investigative order or similar document: or

7

dq. an arbitration or other alternative dispute resclution proceeding against any Insured
commenced by a written demand or notice:

2. a written request received by an Insured to toll or waive a Statute of limitations relating to a
maiter described in subparagraph 1. above.

The term Claim shall not include any labor or grievance arbitration or other Proceeding pursuant to a
collective bargaining agreement. if Third Party Claim Coverage is included in Item 7 in the
Declarations, the term Claim shail include a Third Party Claim.

EP 0001 (Ed. 1005) Page 2 of 13 Printed in U.S.A,


oO

Defense Costs means reasonable and necessary legal fees and expenses {other than regular or
overtime wages, salaries, fees, benefits, or other compensation of the Insured Individuals or
Employees or the Policyholder's overhead expenses) incurred by or on behaif of the insureds in
defending, settling, appealing or investigating Claims, and the premiums for appeal, attachment or
similar bonds. The Insurer, however, shail have no obligation to apply for or furnish such bonds.

Discrimination means the violation of any Federal,. State, or local statute, regulation, ordinance or
common law concerning discrimination in employment anywhere in the world.

Employee means any one or more natural persons who are past, present or future:
1. duly appointed officer of the Policyholder.

2. individuals whose labor or service is directed by the Policyholder, whether such labor or service
iS ON a part-time, temporary, seasonal, or full-time basis;

3. leased employees and volunteers whose labor of service is directed solely by the Policyholder-
4. applicants for prospective employment by the Policyholder: or
any individual contracted to perform work for the Policyholder or who is an independent

contractor for the Policyholder, but only if such individual performs work or services solely for or
on behalf of the Policyholder.

a

Harassment means:

1. work related sexual harassment that interferes with an Employee's performance or

creates an intimidating hostile or offensive working environment:

2. Sexual advances, requests for sexual favors, or other conduct of a sexual nature that is
made a condition of employment or that is used as a basis for employment decisions: or

3. illegal work related harassment.
Insured means the Insured Individuals and the Policyholder.
Insured Individuat means any One or more natural persons who are Past, present or future:

1. duly elected or appointed director, officer or trustee of the Policyholder or their functional
equivalent if serving in such a position outside the United States;

2. individuals compensated by the Policyholder through wages, Salary and/or commissions and
whose labor or service is directed by the Policyholder, whether such labor or service is on a
part-time, temporary, seasonal, or full-time basis;

3. volunteers whose labor or service is directed by the Policyholder-

4. individuals leased to the Policyholder, but only if prior to any Claim against such individual the
Policyholder has agreed in writing to indemnify such individual or the company leasing that
individual for matters within the scope cf coverage of this Policy: or

5. individuals contracted to perform work for the Policyholder or who is an independent contractor
for the Policyholder, but only if prior to any Claim against such individual the Policyholder has
agreed in writing to indemnify such individual for matters within the scope of coverage of this
Policy.

K. Interrelated Wrongful Acts means any or all Wrongful Acts that have as a common nexus any fact,

circumstance, situation, event, transaction, cause or series of causally or logicaily connected facts,
circumstances, situations, events, transactions or causes.

EP 0001 (Ed. 1005) Page 3 of 13 Printed in U.S.A.



L. Loss means the amount which the Insureds become legaily obligated to pay on account of a Claim,
including damages (including front pay and back pay), judgments, any award of pre-judgment or post-
judgment interest, settlement amounts, and costs and fees awarded Pursuant to judgments, and
Defense Costs.

Loss does not include:

1. any amounts for which the Insureds are legally or financially absolved from payment: or

2. taxes or the loss of tax benefits, or fines or penalties imposed by law: or

3. the multiple portion of any multiplied damage award:

4. the future salary, wages, commissions, or Benefits of a claimant who has been or shall be
nired, promoted, or reinstated to employment pursuant to a settlement of, order in, or other

resolution of any Claim;

5. any payment, incentive, or other compensation that is granted in the form of securities of the
Policyhoider or is based on the value of securities of the Policyholder:

6. any Salary, wages, commissions, Benefits or other monetary payments which constitute
severance payments or payments pursuant to a notice period:

7 any amount incurred by an Insured in the defense or investigation of any action, proceeding, or
demand that is not then a Claim even if ()) such amount also benefits the defense of a covered
Claim, or (ji) such action, proceeding or demand subsequently gives rise to a Claim;

8 matters uninsurable under the taw applicable to this Policy; or

2. Punitive Damages.

However, if Punitive Damage Coverage is included in Item 6 in the Declarations, Loss shall include

Punitive Damages to the extent such damages are insurable. in determining the insurability of

Punitive Damages, it is agreed that the law of the jurisdiction most favorable to the insurability of

those damages will control for the purpose of resolving any dispute between the insurer and the

insureds, provided that such jurisdiction is:
(a) where the Punitive Damages were awarded or imposed:

(b) where the Wrongful Act underlying the Claim took place:

{c) where either the Insurer or any Insured is incorporated, has its principal place of business or
resides; or

(d) where this Policy was issued or became effective.
M. Other Workplace Tort means
1. an employment related misrepresentation to an employee:
2. failure to grant or adopt adequate employment related policies and procedures:
4. negligent hiring, supervision, evaluation or retention of employees:
4. employment-related invasion of privacy or defamation;
5. employment-related wrongful infliction of emotional distress; or

EP 0001 (Ed. 1005) Page 4 of 13 Printed in U.S.A.


N.

8. employment-related libel, slander, false arrest, detention imprisonment:

but only when alleged as part of a Claim for an actual or alleged Breach of Employment Contract,
Discrimination, Harassment, Retaliation, or Wrongful Job Action.

Parent Company means the company designated in Item 1 in the Declarations.

Policyhoider means the Parent Company and its Subsidiaries, including any such organization as
a debtor in possession within the meaning of the United States Bankruptcy Code or similar legal
status under foreign law.

Policy Petlod means the period of time specified in Item 2 in the Declarations, subject to prior
termination in accordance with Section VLC.

Pollutants means any substance located anywhere in the world exhibiting any hazardous
characteristics as defined by or identified on a list of hazardous substances issued by the United
States Environmental Protection Agency or any federal, state, county, municipality or locality
counterpart thereof. Such substances shall include, without limitation, solids, liquids, gaseous or
thermal irrtants, contaminants or smoke, vapor, soot, fumes, acids, alkalis, mold, spores, fungi,
germs, chemicais or waste materials. Pollutants shail also mean any other air emission, odor, waste
water, oil or cil product, infectious or medical waste, asbestos or asbestos product, lead or lead
product, noise, and electric, magnetic or electromagnetic field.

Potential Claim means an allegation or accusation, by or on behalf of a potential claimant, of a
Wrongful Employment Act provided such allegation does not constitute a Claim, but subsequently
may give rise to a Claim.

Punitive Damages means punitive or exemplary damages and also includes liquidated damages
awarded under the Age Discrimination in Employment Act (ADEA), Equal Pay Act (EPA), and Family
and Medical Leave Act (FMLA), all as amended.

Retaliation means the illegal retaliatory treatment of Employees, including any retaliatory treatment
against an Employee for such Employee engaging in any of the following activities:

1. exercising his or her rights under the law:
2. refusing to violate any law or opposing an unlawful practice;

3. threatening to disclose or actually disclosing violations of the law to any governmental authority or
the management of the Policyholder, or

4. testifying, cooperating, or assisting with respect to an investigation or proceeding by a
governmental authority against the Policyholder.

Subsidiary means any entity in which and so long as the Parent Company, either directly or
indirectly: .

1. owns more than fifty (50) percent of the issued and outstanding voting equity securities, or

2. controls voting rights representing the present right to vote for election or to appoint more than
fifty (50) percent of the directors or trustees,

on or before the effective date of this Policy, or after the effective date of this Policy if the entity is
covered pursuant to Section VHLA.1, solely with regard to Wrongful Acts occurring at or after the
time such entity became a Subsidiary.

Third Party Claim means any Claim brought and maintained against any Insured by or on behalf of
any natural person who is, or attempted to be, a customer or vendor of the Policyhotder or an

EP 0001 (Ed. 1005) Page 5 of 13 Printed in U.S.A.


employee of such customer or vendor of the Policyholder for any Wrongful Third Party Act. Third
Party Claims shall not include Claims brought by independent contractors of the Policyholder.

W. Wrongful Act means a Wrongful Employment Act or a Wrongful Third Party Act.

X%. Wrongful Employment Act means any Breach of Employment Contract, Discrimination,
Harassment, Retaliation, Wrongful Job Action, or Other Workplaca Torts actually or allegedly
committed or attempted by:

1. the Policyholder,
2. any Insured Individuals in their capacities as such: or
3. by any other persons for whom the Insureds are legally responsible.

Y. Wrongful Job Action means wrongful:

1. dismissal, discharge or termination (either actual or constructive) of employment:
2. wrongful failure to employ or promote:
3. wrongful reference, discipline or deprivation of a career opportunity; or

4. wrongful demotion or adverse change in the terms, conditions or status of employment.

Z. Wrongful Third Party Act means any error, misstatement, misieading Statement, act, omission,
neglect, or breach of duty actually or allegedly committed or attempted by:

1. the Policyholder,
2. any Insured Individuals jin their capacities as such: or
3. by any other persons for whom the Insureds are iégally responsible,

and which discriminates against any natural person who is a customer or vendor of the Policyholder,
or employee of a customer or vendor of the Policyholder, on the basis of that natural person's race,
color, creed, national origin, gender, sexual orientation or preference, marital status, sex, religion,
age, military service, disability or handicap, pregnancy, or on any other basis prohibited by law,
including the sexual or other discriminatory harassment of such customer or vendor or employee of
such customer or vendor.

iV. EXCLUSIONS
A. Exclusions Applicable to All Loss
The Insurer shall not be liable for Loss arising from any Claim made against any Insured:

1. based upon, arising out cf, directly or indirectly resulting from, in consequence of or in any way
involving any fact, circumstance, transaction, event or Wrongful Act which before the inception
Date set forth in Item 2 of the Declarations, was the subject of any notice of claim. loss or notice
of potential claim or potential loss given under any other policy of insurance:

2. based upon, arising out of, directly or indirectly resulting from, in consequence of or in any way
involving:

(a) any demand, suit, or other proceeding pending, or order, decree or judgment entered, against
any Insured on or prior to the Pending or Prior Claim Date set forth in item 9 in the
Declarations or any Wrongful Act, fact, circumstance or situation underlying or alleged
therein; or
EP 0001 (Ed. 1005) Page 6 of 13 Printed in U.S.A.



(b) any other Wrongful Act whenever occurring, which, together with a Wrongful Act described
in (a) above, constitute interrelated Wrongful Acts;

3. based upon, arising out of, directly or indirectly resulting from, in consequence of or in any way
involving any action that relates to a collective bargaining agreement:

4, based upon, arising from, or in consequence of the liability of others assumed by any insured
under any written or oral contract or agreement; provided that this Exclusion A. 4 shall not apply
ta the extent that an Insured would have been liable in the absence of such a contract or
agreement;

5. for an actual or alleged violation of the responsibilities, obligations or duties imposed by the
following laws and any amendments thereto:

(a) any law governing workers’ compensation, unemployment insurance, social security,
disability benefits or similar law:

(b) the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (except Section 510 thereof) or any
law that governs any employee benefit arrangement, program, policy, pian or scheme of any
type (whether or not legally required or whether provided during or subsequent to
employment with the Policyholder):

(c) the Fair Labor Standards Act or any law that governs wage, hour or Payroll policies and
practices, except the Equal Pay Act:

(a) the National Labor Relations Act or any law that pertains to the rights of employees with
respect to unions, unionizing, or collective activities in the workplace or any obligations of
employers with respect to such employee activities:

(@) the Worker Adjustment and Retraining Notification Act, or any law that governs any obligation
of an employer to notify, discuss, or bargain with its employees or others in advance of any
plant or facility closing, or mass layoff or any similar obligation: ,

(?} the Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1985:

(g) the Federaj False Claims Act or any similar federal, state, or local statutory law or common
law anywhere in the world; or

(h} the Occupational Safety and Health Act or any law that governs workplace safety and health:
including any other federal, state local or foreign statute or law similar to any statute or law
described in (a) through (h) of this exclusion, or rules or regulations promulgated under any of
such statutes or laws; provided however this Exclusion A. 5. shall not apply to any Claim for
Retaliation;

6. made against a Subsidiary or an Insured Indvidual of such Subsidiary for any Wrongful Act
committed, attempted, or allegedly committed or attempted during anytime when such entity was .
not a Subsidiary;

7. based upon, arising out of, directly or indirectly resulting from, in consequence of or in any way
involving:

{a} any nuclear reaction, radiation or contamination:
{b) the actual, alleged or threatened discharga, release, escape, Seepage, migration, dispersal or

disposal of Pollutants into or on real or personal property, water or the atmosphere: or

EP 0001 (Ed. 1005) Page 7 of 13 Printed in U.S.A,



(c) any direction or request that the Insureds test for. monitor, clean up, remove, contain, treat,
detoxify or neutralize Pollutants, or any voluntary decision to do so:

provided that this Exclusion A. 7. shall not apply to Claims brought by an Employee for
Retaliation;

8. for actual or alleged bodily injury, mental anguish, emotional distress, humiliation, assauit, battery,
sickness, disease, or death of any person or damage to or destruction of any tangible property
including loss of use thereof; provided that this exclusion shall not apply with respect to any actual
or alleged mental anguish or emotional distress in a Claim or Third Party Claim for a Wrongful
Act by an Insured;

9. for any actual or alleged breach of any express contract between the Policyholder and an
independent contractor of the Policyholder.

10. for any actual or alleged charge of contempt of court or violation of a court order.

11. based upon, arising from, or in consequence of any federal, state, or local statutory law or
common law anywhere in the world that governs competition, monopolistic practices, or price
fixing (including horizontal or other price fixing of wages, hours, salaries, compensation, benefits
or any other terms and conditions of employment), including but not limited to the Interstate
Commerce Act of 1887, the Sherman Antitrust Act of 1890, the Clayton Act of 1914, the
Robinson-Patman Act of 1936, the Cellar-Kefauver Act of 1950, the Federal Trade Commission
Act of 1914, or amendments to or regulations promulgated under any such law: or

12. based upon, arising out of, directly or indirectly resulting from, in consequence of or in any way
involving:

(a) the gaining of any profit, remuneration, or advantage to which the insured was not legally
entitled; or

(b) any criminal or deliberately fraudulent act, error or omission by an Insured:

if evidenced by any judgment, final adjudication, alternate dispute resolution proceeding or a
document or written statement by an Insured.

With respect fo exclusion A. 12 (b) set forth above no knowledge possessed by any Insured
Individual shall be imputed to any other Insured Individual.

B. Exclusions Applicable Solely To Loss other than Defense Costs

With respect to Claims not excluded by Section iV Exclusions A. of the Policy, the Insurer shall only
pay Defense Costs, and not other components of Loss, on account of any Claim made against any
Insured, for:

1. amounts which constitute Benefits due or to become due or the equivalent value of such
Benefits; provided that this Exciusion B. 1. shall not apply to any Claim for wrongful termination
of employment:

2. amounts which constitute costs associated with providing any accommodation for persons with
disabilities or any other status which is protected under any applicable federal, state, or local
Statutory law or common law anywhere in the world, including but not limited to the Americans
With Disabilities Act, the Civil Rights Act of 1964, or amendments to or rules or reguiations
promulgated under any such law,

3. the recovery of amounts owing under or assumed by any Insured pursuant to any express
written employment contract or agreement with any Employee; provided, however: this exclusion
shall not apply to the extent the Insured would be liable for such amounts in the absence of such

contract or agreernent: or
EP 0001 (Ed. 1005) Page 8 of 13 Printed in U.S.A.


4. any request order (including the cost of compliance with such order) or agreement for non-
monetary relief including injunctive relief, declaratory relief, restitution, or any other equitable
remedy.

V. LIMIT OF LIABILITY, RETENTIONS, DEFENSE AND SETTLEMENT
A. Limit of Liability

The Insurer's maximum aggregate liability under all Insuring Agreements for all Loss arising from all
Claims first made during the Policy Period shall be the Limit of Liability set forth in Item 3 in the
Declarations.

The Limit of Liability for the Extended Reporting Period, if exercised, shall be part of and not in
addition to the Limit of Liability for the immediately preceding Policy Period. The purchase of the
Extended Reporting Period shall not increase or reinstate the Limit of Liability, which shall be the
maximum liability of the Insurer for such Policy Period and Extended Reporting Period, combined.

Defense Costs are part of, and not in addition to, the Limit of Liability set forth in item 3 in the
Declarations and the payment by the Insurer of Defense Costs reduces and may totally exhaust
such Limit of Liability.

if the Limit of Liability is exhausted by payment of Loss, the Insurer's obligations under this Policy
shall be completely fulfilled and extinguished.

All Claims arising from the same Wrongful Act and/or all Interrelated Wrongful Acts shail be
deemed one Claim, and such Claim shall be deemed to be first made on the earlier date that: (i) any
of the Claims is first made against an Insured under this Policy or any prior policy, or (i) valid notice
was given by the insureds under this Policy or any prior policy of any Wrongful Act, or any fact,
circumstance, situation, event, transaction or cause which underlies such Claim. Coverage under this
Policy shail apply only with respect to Claims deemed to have been first made during the Policy
Period and reported in writing to the Insurer in accordance with the terms herein.

Go. Retentions

The Insurer shall be liable for only that part of Loss arising from a Claim which is excess of the
Retention set forth in Item 4 in the Declarations, and such Retention Shall be borne by the Insureds
uninsured and at their own risk.

C. Defense and Settlement

The Insurer shall have both the right and the duty to defend, and appoint counsel with respect to, any
Claim made against the Insureds alleging a Wrongful Act, even if such Claim is groundiess, false
or fraudulent. The Insureds shall have the right, at their own expense, to associate with the Insurer
in the defense of any Claim, including but not limited to negotiating a settlement. However. the
Insurer shail not be obligated to defend any Claim after the Limit of Liability set forth at item 3 in the
Declarations has been exhausted or after the rejection of a settlement offer as described below.

The Insureds shall not settle any Claim, incur any Defense Costs, admit or assume any liability,
stipulate to any judgment, or otherwise assume any contractual obligation, without the Insurer's prior
written consent, which shall not be unreasonably withheld. The Insurer shall not be liable for any
settlement, Defense Costs, assumed obligation, admission or stipulated judgment to which it has not
consented or for which the Insureds are not legally obligated. The insureds will provide the Insurer
with all information, assistance and cooperation that the Insurer reasonably requesis. The insureds
shail not knowingly take any action which increases the Insurer's exposure for Loss under this Policy.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Insurer's consent shail not be required with respect to any Claim if
the total Loss (inclusive of Defense Costs) arising from such Claim is less than fifty (50) percent of
the applicable Retention set forth in item 4 in the Deciarations.

EP 0001 (Ed. 1005) Page 9 of 13 Printed in USA.


lf the Insurer recommends a settlement within the Policy's applicable Limit of Liability which is
acceptable to tha claimant and the Insureds unreasonably refuse to consent, then the Insurer's
lability for ail Loss on account of such Claim shail not exceed the amount for which the Insurer could
have settled such Claim. plus an additional fifty (50) percent of such amount, plus Defense Costs up
to the date the insureds refused to settle such Claim, However, in no event shail the Insurer's liability
exceed the applicable Limit of Liability set forth in item 3 in the Declarations.

Vi AWARENESS PROVISION

A. if during the Policy Period any Insured becomes aware of a Potential Claim, and the Insured
gives written notice of such Potential Clalm to the Insurer during the Policy Period, then any
Clalm subsequently arising from such Potential Claim shall be considered to have been made
during the Policy Period in which the Potential Claim was first reported to the Insurer. No
coverage shall be provided for fees and expenses incurred prior to the time such circumstances
result in a Claim.

B, The insureds shail, as a condition precedent to exercising their rights hereunder:

1, include with any notice of Potential Claim a description of the circumstances, the nature
of the potential Wrongful Act, the nature and extent of the potential damages, the names
of the petential claimants, the identities of the potential defendants, and the manner in
which the Insured first becarne aware of such circumstances: and

Ro

give the Insurer such additional information and cooperation as it may reasonably
require.

Cc. Written notice of any such subsequent Claim resulting from a Potential Claim must be given to
the Insurer as soon as practicable, but in no event later than sixty (60) days after such Claim is
first made.

VAL NOTICES
All notices under any provision of this Policy must be made in writing and delivered by prepaid express
courier, certified mail or fax. Notice to the Insureds shall be given to the Parent Company. Notices to the
Insurer shall be given to the appropriate party at the address set forth in Item 711 in the Declarations.

Notices given as described above shail be deemed to be received and eifective upon actual receipt
thereof by the addressee or one day following the date such notices are sent, whichever is earlier.

VL = GENERAL CONDITIONS
A. Transactions That Impact Coverage
1. If, after the effective date of this Policy
(a) the Policyholder:

(i) creates or acquires an entity;

(i) merges with another entity such that the Policyholder is tha surviving entity: or

(ii) assumes voting rights representing the present right to vote for election or to appoint
more than fifty (50) percent of the directors or trustees of an entity (hereinafter (i)-(iii} of
this subsection each a "Transaction’),

‘hen such entity and any subsidiaries shail be deemed to be a Subsidiary, only if the totai

number of empioyees in such entity and any subsidiaries prior to such Transaction does not

exceed ten percent (10%) of the total number of Employees immediately pricr to such

Transaction.

EP 0001 (Ed. 1005} Page 10 of 13 Printed in U.S.A.

sen eaanninnanttbat tn etre



Notwithstanding the above, if the Policyholder engages in a Transaction and the total
number of employees of the Policyholder after such Transaction exceeds a hundred and ten
percent (110%) of the total number of Employees immediately prior to such Transaction,
then this Policy shall provide insurance for such entities and any subsidiaries and their
directors, officers, trustees, or employees, as for a period of ninety (90) days after the
eifective date of such Transaction. At its sole option and upon submission of any and all
information as it may require, the Insurer May, Upon payment of any additional premium or
modification of the provisions of this Policy that may be warranted, extend the insurance
otherwise afforded through this subparagraph.

There shail be no coverage for any Wrongful Act by such created, acquired or merged entity
or by any persons or entities considered to be insureds Pursuant to paragraph (a} above,
where such Wrongful Act occurred before the effective date of such creation, acquisition or
merger.

(b) the Policyholder acquires ail or substantially all of the assets of another entity, and the total
number of employees of the Policyholder after such or acquisition exceeds a hundred and
ten percent (110%) of the total number of Employees immediately prior to such acquisition,
then this Policy shall provide insurance for such newly hired employees for a period of ninety
(90) days after the effective date of such acquisition. At its sole aption and upon submission
of any and all information as it may require, the Insurer may, Upon payment of any additional
premium or modification of the provisions of this Policy that may be warranted, extend the
insurance otherwise afforded through this subparagraph.

if, during the Policy Period, any of the following events occurs:

(a) the acquisition of the Parent Company, or of ail or Substantially ail of its assets, by another
entity, or the merger or consolidation of the Parent Company into or with another entity such
that the Parent Company is not the surviving entity: or

{b) the acquisition by any person, entity or affiliated group of persons of éntities of the right to
elect, appoint or designate at least fifty (50) percent of the directors of the Parent Company;

then coverage under this Policy shall continue until termination of the Policy Period, and shail
not be cancellable by the Parent Company, but only with respect to Wrongful Acts occurring
prior to such merger, consolidation or acquisition. The Parent Company shail give written notice
of such merger, consclidation or acquisition to the Insurer as soon as practicable together with
such information as the Insurer may require. However, coverage under this Policy will cease as of
the effective date of such event with respect to Wrongful Acts occurring after such event. The
appointment by any state or federal official, agency or court of any receiver, trustee, examiner,.
conservator, liquidator, rehabilitater or similar official to take control Of, supervise, manage or
liquidate the Parent Company, or the Parent Company becoming a debtor in possession within
the meaning of the United States Bankruptcy Code or similar legal status under foreign law, shall
not be considered an acquisition within the meaning of this Subsection.

If before or during the Policy Period an organization ceases to be a Subsidiary, coverage with
respect fo such Subsidiary and its Insureds shall continue until termination of the Policy, but
only with respect to Wrongful Acts occurring prior to the date such organization ceased to be a
Subsidiary.

Representations and Severability with Respect to Application

in granting coverage to any one of the Insureds, the Insurer has relied upon the statements made in
the written Application for this Policy and all information Provided to the Insurer and upon the
statements in the original written application submitted to another insurer with respect to the prior
coverage incepting as of the Continuity Date, if any, set forth in item 10 in the Deciarations. All such

statements are the basis of this Policy and shail be incorporated in and constitute part of this Policy.

EP 0001 (Ed. 1005} Page 11 of 13 Printed in U.S.A.



o

er

in order to determine if coverage is available:

1. only facts pertaining to and knowledge possessed by any chairperson of the board of directors,
president, chief executive officer, chief operating officer, chief financial officer, in house general
counsel, human resources manager or risk manager of the Policyholder shail be imputed to the
Policyholder, and

Me

no declaration or statement in the Application or knowledge possessed by the Policyholder or
any Insured Individual shall be imputed to any other insured Individual Such written
Application(s) for coverage shall be construed as a separate Application for coverage by each
Insured Individual.

Cancellation/Nonrenewal

1. The Parent Company may cancel this Policy during the Policy Period by giving the Insurer
advance written notice of cancellation stating when thereafter such cancellation will be effective.

N

The Insurer may only cancel this Policy in the event of nonpayment of premium by giving the
Parent Company written notice of cancellation at least twenty (20) days before the effective tine
of cancellation.

3. Notice of cancellation shall state the effective time of cancellation. The Policy Period shall end at
that time.

4, If this Policy is cancelled, the {nsurer shall send the Parent Company any premium refund as
soon as practicable. If the Parent Company cancels. the refund shall be on the customary short
rate basis. The return or tender of a return premium is not a condition precedent to the
cancellation becoming effective at the time stated in the cancellation notice.

an

lf the insurer decides not fo renew this Policy, the Insurer shall provide written notice to the
Parent Company at least sixty (60) days prior to the end of the Policy Period.

8. If any controlling law requires a longer period of notice by the Insurer, the Insurer shail give such
longer notice.

Other Insurance

if any Loss arising from any Third Party Claim, is insured by any other policy(ies) of insurance, prior
or current, then this Policy shall apply only in excess of and will not contribute with the amount of any
deductibles, retentions and limits of liability under such other policy(ies) whether such policy(ies) is
stated to be primary, contributory, excess, contingent or otherwise, unless such policy(ies) is written
io be specifically excess of this Policy by reference in such other policy(ies) to this Policy's Policy
Number indicated in the Declarations.

in all other events, this Policy is intended to provide primary insurance.

Territory

This Policy shall apply to Claims made against the Insureds anywhere in the world.

Valuation and Currency

All premiums, limits, Retentions, Loss, and other amounts under this Policy are expressed and
payable in the currency of the United States. ff judgment is rendered, settlement is denominated or
another element of Lass under this Policy is stated in a currency other than United States dollars,
payment under this Policy shall be made in United States dollars at the rate of exchange published in

The Wall Street Journal on the date the judgment becomes final or payment of the settlement or other
element of Loss is due.

EP 0001 (Ed. 1005) Page 12 of 13 Printed in U.S.A.


G. Subrogation

in the event of any payment under this Policy, the Insurer shall be subrogated to the extent of such
payment to all the Insureds' rights of recavery, and the Insureds shall execute all papers required
and shail do everything necessary to secure and preserve such rights, including the execution of such
documents necessary to enable the Insurer effectively to bring suit in the name of the insureds.

No Action Against Insurer

No action shail lie against the Insurer unless, as a condition precedent thereto, there has been full
compliance with ail the terms of this Policy. No person or organization shall have any right under this
Policy to join the Insurer as a party to any action against the Insureds to determine the Insureds’
liability, nor shail the Insurer be impleaded by the Insureds or their legal representative.

Bankruptcy

Bankruptcy or insolvency of the Policyholder or of any Insured Individual shall not relieve the
Insurer of its obligations nor deprive the Insurer of its rights or defenses under this Policy.

Authorization Clause

By acceptance of this Policy, the Parent Company agrees to act on behalf of the insureds with
respect to the giving and receiving of any notice provided for in this Policy (except the giving of notice
to apply for any Extended Reporting Period). the payment of premiums and the receipt of any return
premiums that may become due under this Policy, and the agreement to and acceptance of
endorsements, and the insureds agree that the Parent Company shail act on their behaif.

Alteration and Assignment

No change in, modification of, or assignment of interest under this Policy shall be effective except
when made by a wntten endorsement to this Policy which is signed by an authorized representative
of the Insurer. The insureds agree that this Policy constitutes the entire agreement between the
insureds and the Insurer, or any of their agents or brokers. Notice to or knowledge possessed by the
Insurer, the Insureds or any agent, broker or other person acting on behalf of the Insureds or Insurer.
shall not effect a waiver of or estop the Insurer or the Insureds from asserting any rights under this
Policy.

Headings

The description in the headings and subheadings are solely for convenience, and form no part of the
terms and conditions of coverage.

EP 0001 (Ed. 1005) Page 13 of 13 . Printed in U.S.A.