 Case 4:14-cv-00726 Document 12-4 Filed in TXSD on 02/13/15 Page 13 of 108

This is made by and between Shell Exploration & Production Company and
its affiliates and successors (“Company”) and Nicole Ryder (“You,” “you,” “your,” or
“Fy and your heirs and successors. In consideration of the mutual promises in this

: and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of
which is acknowledged, you and the Company agree as follows:

a
Texm of Agreement

This Agreenvent shall be effective August I, 2011 and continue in effect through July 31,
2013 (the “Retention Period”) uniess the Company determines prior to that date that the
services are substantially complete, in which case the Agreement will be satisfied on such
earllcr date and filt payment made within 15 business days from such earlier date without
proration, provided that the Agreement or services arc not otherwise terminated in
accordance with any other provision of this Agreement.

1. Payment Schedule. A Restricted Cash Payment (“Payment”) of $60,300 will be
made within 15 business days from the end of the Retention Period, subject to the
terms and conditions of this Agreement, including any applicable adjustment,
forfeiture and adjusted time of payment provisions.

rolding. You are responsible for all income and social taxes
sniclilig bes ony payment under the Agreement, unless you are on an
assignment under IBAS terms, in which case the provisions of IBAS (including
appropriate reductions for hypothetical tax) will be applicable. The Company
may withhold from any payment under the Agreement such amounts as the
Company determines necessary to satisfy income and social taxes or any other
withholding obligations.

TH.
General

Pesiod; and

SHELL-RYDER-001889

 Case 4:14-cv-00726 Document 12-4 Filed in TXSD on 02/13/15 Page 14 of 108

b. your employment shall be at the will of the Company, in such capacity as
the Company may in its sole discretion determine. The Payment may be
affected by a change in your duties or position as set forth below.

2. Terms of Payment, Pursuant to the provisions of the Agreement:

a. In the event that ducing the Reteation Period (f} your employment with the
Company tenninates due to a Company fuitiated severance or your death
ot Ci) you are transferred out of the position you held at the start of the
Reteation Period for a different position with the Company for any reason,
the Payment will be prorated bassd on the percentage of the Retention
Period that you were employed by the Company or held such initial
position, as applicable, This adjusted amount will be payable to you (or
your estate) within 15 days of such termination or change in position and
no additional amount shall be payable to you under this Agreenient.

b. Should your employment with the Company terminate during the
Retention Period due ta your resignation or retirement (other than
retirement in connection with a Company initiated severance), any
amount(s) scheduled to be paid shall be forfeited and you waive all rights
to afl or part of the Payment.

c. Notwithstanding any provision hereof to the contrary, any 1 amount
of the Payment under this Agreement shall be forfeited if during the
Retention Period the Company concludes that (i) you failed to meet
performance expectations in your assignments and responsibilities, (ii)
you committed fraud or dishonesty with respect to the Company, (iii) you
willfully damaged the assets of, or engaged in misconduct which in any
material respect was injurious to the Company, (iv) you wrongfully
disclosed or used any proprietary or confidential information which is
related to the business, properties or affuirs of the Company and the
release or use of which is detrimental in any material respect to its
competitive position or goodwill, (v) you engaged in any activity which in
any material respect reasonably constitutes a conflict with the interests of
the Company, or (vi) you violated the Company Code of Conduct in any
respect.

d. In the event that you are granted a temporary leave of absence (including
military or sick leave, ct to enter governmental employment) during
the Retention Period, your employment shalt be deemed to continue
unchanged for purposes of the Agreement while you are on that leave;
provided that in the case of certain leaves of absences, any unpaid amount
of the Payment may be paid to you earlier than scheduled so that such
amount does not constitute nonqualified deferred compensation under
Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code,

yment Not Transferable. You shalt not transfer, assign or pledge the Payment
is any manner other than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution until

the Agreement has expired.

SHELL-RYDER-001880

 Case 4:14-cv-00726 Document 12-4 Filed in TXSD on 02/13/15 Page 15 of 108

No Employment Rights. Nothing in this Agreement shall confer upon you any
right to be retained as a director, officer or employee of the Company.
Notwithstanding any provision of this Agreement, the Company may in its sole
discretion terminate your employment before, during, or subsequent to, the
termination of this Agreement, with or without cause and with or without notice,

5. Notices, Any notice relating to the Agreement shall be in waiting or in such form
as may be acceptable to the Company. All notices to the Company shall be
addressed to Michelle Reyes, HR Account Manager — Commercial/NVBD, Shell
Exploration & Production Company. All notices sent to you shall be sent to you
at 218 Jaimes Coust, Houston, Texas, 77094. You may designate a new address
by notice to that effect. Each notice shall be deemed to have been offectively
given when mailed, or delivered in person, to the proper address,

renmin of Rights, Any forfeiture of the Payment shalt be without prejudice
to any legal right or remedy that the Company may have against you or any other
person.
7. Interpretation of Agreement. Any interpretation, construction or application of

this Agreement shall be determined by the Company in its sole and absolute
discretion and will be final, binding and conclusive for all purposes.

8. Successors, The Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon each
successor and assign of the Company.
9. Lay, The Agreement shall be construed and interpreted in accordance

with the lava of the State of Texas without giving effect to that State’s choice of
law principles.

10. Unfunded, This Agreement shall be unfunded, and the Company shall not be
required to segregate any assets with respect to Payment benefits under the
Agreement, Any liability of the Company to any person with respect to a benefit
under this shall be based solely upon any contractual obligations that
may be ereated hereunder; no such obligations of the Company shall be deemed
to be secured by any pledge or other encumbrance on any property of the
Company, or funded or secured in any way. Nothing contained in this Agreement
shall be deemed to create a trust of any kind or create any fiduciary relationship.

11. No Benefit Rights Conferred, The Payment under this Agreement shall not be
taken into account in determining benefits under any pension, retirement, profit-
sharing or welfore benefit plan, In addition, the Payment under this Agreement
shalt not be added to base pay or base salary for future salary purposes or be taken
into consideration when calculating any incentive compensation,

SHELL-RYDER-001691

 Case 4:14-cv-00726 Document 12-4 Filed in TXSD on 02/13/15 Page 16 of 108

sidment and Tennina fihis Agreement, The Compaiy may amend or
terminate this Agreement at any time, excdpt that rio ainendment.or tornmination.
shall reduce or diminish the benefits or rights to which you are otherwise entitled
under the Agreement immediately prior to any-such anvendment-or termination
without your consent, except ad required by statute or rufes and regulations

13. Severability. In the-event any provisions of this Agreement shall be declared
illegal or'inwalid fot any reason, the illegality or invalidity shall not affect any
other provisions hereof, but shall be. filly severable and thig Agreement shall. be
construed and enforced ag if the provisions had not been included.

14. Confidentiality. You ageee and promise that you will hold the existence and tho
contents of this Agreament in strict confidence and pot disctose in any manner or.
otherwise give to others any information conceming this Agreement, except that:
you may disclose this Agtocment and the Payiient fo your spouse, accountant, (ax
advisor, or lawyer or as requited by law. Notwithstanding any other provision in
this Agreement, you understand and agree that in the évent you disclose or

threaten to disclose any such information except ag stated herein, you'will not
receive the. Payidnt.

[ have read and I vinderstand and agree that this Agreement is a contract between the
Company and me for the reasous stated herein and as such the Company may exercise
legal means.to.enforee all provisions described in the Agreement. I have read and T
understand arid agive to-all of the tetms and.condifians of the Agreement.

Employee Name (Print)

Date; OO.r A\ ;

(Signature Date).

Date: gf af i cs

SHELL-RYDER-001692