




                                                                                                     2200 Ross Avenue, Suite 2200
                                                                                                               Dallas, Texas 75201
                                                                                                         Telephone: 214-740-80D0
                                                                                                                Pax: 214-740-BBOO
                                                                                                                www,toc.kelord corn

                                                                                                                   Thomas G. Yoxall
     Locke Lord Bissell &Liddell~                                                                 Direct Telephone: (214) 740-BSB3
                                                                                                      E-Mail: tyoxall@lockelold.corn
     Attorneys & Counselors


     April 30, 2008

     ,VIA FACSIMILE
     John W. Arnold
     Bailey/Crowe & Kugler LLP
     6550 Bank of America Plaza, 901 Main Street
     Dallas, Texas 75202-3736
     Re: Lincoln General Insurance Company v. U.S. AutoJnsurance Services, et aL; CA 3:07-CV-
         1985-B
     Dear Mr. Arnold:
            This letter sets forth the agreement of Plaintiff Lincoln General Insurance Qpmp..any
    ("Plaintiff= or "Lincoln General") and U.S. Auto Insurance Services, Inc. (°U.S. Auto’), G~rnma
    Group Inc., CSI Agency Services, Inc., Alpha Partners, Ltd., James Douglas Maxwell’ a/Ida
    Doug Maxwell, James Thornton Maxwell a/ida Jim Maxwoll, and Santa Fe Auto Insurance
    Company (these original and proposed additiona! defendant~to the above suit are referred to
    herein as the "Defendants-) (collectively Plaintiff and Defendants are the "Parties") regarding the
    scope of the. above referenced lawsuit (the "Lawsuit’) and the tolling of certain claims.
            The Parties are presently engaged in the Lawsuit which relates t~ a reinsurance
    arrangement through which Lincoln General agreed to act as reinsurer for certain private
    passenger automobile insurance p01icles sold and handled by U.S. Auto and, allegedly, other
    Defendants, and for which State and County Mutual Fire Insuran~ce Company ("State and County")
    was the ceding insurer. Lincoln General hereby agrees to limit the scope of its claims in the
    Lawsuit to the following:                                                  ..
                   Claims related to alleged inflation or miscalculation of commissions, return
                   commissions, or commission adjustments for U.S. Auto pursuant to the
                   reinsurance arrangement as a result of alleged exclusiqn or misapplication of
                   Incurred But Not Reported losses ("IBNR-) in calculating such commissions,
                   return commlssions, or commission adjustments. This includes, but is not limited
                   to, claims related to alleged failure to .timely remit amounts allegedly owing to
                   Lincoln General as a consequence of alleged inflation or miscalculation of
                   Auto’s commissions, return commissions, or commission adjustments; claims
                   related to alleged improper retention, misuse, or conversion by Defendants
                   andlor other persons or entities of any such alleged amounts owing to but not
                   timely paid to Lincoln General, including ~nds that Lincoln General asserts were
                   =to be held in trust; and claims related to alleged encouragement or involvement
                   by any Defendant or other person or entity in any of the foregoing alleged
                   conduct. Accordingly, such claims may encompass actions seeking legal or
                   equitable relief for, among other things, breach of contract, breach of fiduciary
                   duty and/or trust, aiding and abetting breach of fiduciary duty andlor trust,
                   tortious interference with contract, misappropriation, conversion, unjust
    Atlanta, Ausl|n, Boston, Chicago, Dallas, Houston, London, Los Angeles, New Orleans. New York, Sacramento, Washington DC




                                                                                                                                       72





     J. ,~moid
     April 30, 2008
     Page 2


                      enrichment, and an accounting.

            (2)       Claims related to the alleged practice, by one or more of the Defendants, of
                      paying for insurance claims or losses on insurance policies not reinsured by
                      Lincoln General and/or allegedly making excess payments for insurance claims
                      or losses on insurance policies only partially reinsured by Lincoln General, using
                      an account funded by Lincoln General, without providing Lincoln General with
                      reimbursement for such improper and/or excess payments,
              In addition, Lincoln General. agrees not to asseit as part of the Lawsuit any causes of
     action for alleged mishandling of insurance claims on the reinsured policies, alleged setting of
     improper reserves for the payment of losses on the reinsured policies (other than concerning
     the exclusion or misapplication of IBNR), alleged improper closing of claims files for insurance
     claims on the reinsured policies, or U.S. Auto’s decision to stop writing new policies to’ be
     reinsured by Lincoln General beginning on or about May 2007 (collectively, "Other Causes of
     Action"); however, Lincoln General reserves the right to assert one or more of the Other Causes
     of Action as part of a separate lawsuit. Any separate lawsuit involving Other Causes 6f A6tion,
     howe.vet, may n.pt be. filed by Lincoln General during the pendency of the Lawsuit_ ~,... ~
              Lincoln General further agre~ to enable Defendarti U.S. Auto :lnsuranc~ Services, Inc,
     ("U,S. Auto") to limit the claims it might otherwise seek in the Lawsuit. In particular, Lincoln
     General agrees that U.So Auto may, in a separate lawsuit, assert claims (including, but not
     limited to a breach of contract claim), based on an allegation that Lincoln General has withheld
     or retained monies that exceed the maximum profit margin to which U.S. Auto contends Lincoln
     General is entitled under the 2002 and/or 2003 Quota Share Reinsurance Agreements ("the
     E.xcess Funds Claim(s)." Lincoln General agrees that the Excess Funds Claim(s) do not adse
     out of the same nucleus of operative facts as any claims or counterclaims asserted in the
     Lawsuit, and thus may appropriately be brought in a separate lawsuit. Further, Lincoln General
     expressly relinquishes and waives its dght to assert that the Excess Funds Claim(s) are barred
     by the doctrines of ms judicata or collateral estoppel as a result of any findings of fact,
     conclusions of law, judgments, verdicts, arbitration decisions, o.r other determinations made as
     part of the Lawsuit. Lincoln General also agrees to toll the running of the statute of limitations
     for the the Excess Funds Claim(s) until the Lawsuit has been settled or otherwise finally
     resolved, including the completion of any appeals. By agreeing to toll the running of the statute
     of limitations in this fashion, Lincoln General is not waiving its right or ability to assert any
     limitations defenses which may exist immediately before this agreement is executed. Finally,
     any separate lawsuit involving the Excess Funds Claim(s) may not be filed by U.S. Auto dudng
     the penden.cy of the Lawsuit.
              In excl~ange, Defendants agree that the Other Causes of Action do not arise out of the
     same nucleus of operative facts as any claims or c~untercla!ms asserted in the Lawsuit and
     thus may appropriately be brought in a separate lawsuit. Further, Defendants expressly
     relinquish and waive their right to assert that the Other Causes of Action are barred by the
     doctrines of ms judicata or collateral esloppel as a result of any fir~dings of fact, conclusions of
     la..w, judgments, verdicts, arbitration decisions, or other determinations made as part of the
     Lawsuit, In addition, Defendants agree to toll the running of the statute of limitations for the
     Other Causes of Action i~nt~ the .Lawsuit has been settled or otherwise finally resolved, including
     the completion of any appeals. By agreeing to toll the running of the statute of limitations in this
     fashion, Defendants are not waiving their dght or ab~ty to assert any limitations defenses which




                                                                                                            73





     J. Arnold
     April 30, 2008
     Page 3


     may exist immediately before this agreement is executed. Moreover, by entering into this
     agreement, in general, Defendants do not concede or acknowledge they are proper parties to
    ¯ the Lawsuit, or to any separate lawsuit that may eventually be filed.
             Lastly, it is understood by Uncoln General-that Defendants, by executing this
     agreement, are not acknowledging that the Other Causes of Action have any medt whatsoever.
     Likewise, it is understood by Defendants that Lincoln General, by executing this agreement, is
     not acknowledging that the Excess Fund Claim(s) have any medt whatsoever. Lincoln General
     and Defer~dants, In answer or other response to any separate lawsuit that is or may be
     eventually filed, all reserve the dght to contest any later-filed separate lawsuits, and may assert
     any and all applicable defenses or affirmative defenses to                  allegations, claims, or
     counterclaims that are alleged in such lawsuits.

     AGREED TO BY:



     Thorfi~ G. ~’oxa|l "" ....... Dat~
    ¯ °Tex~s Bar Nd. 0’0785304.. .; ; : .                   ~nW.B~ir/~mold Nb. 007952~1
     Paul Schuster                 :-" ’                                & Kugler, L.L.P.      ,’, :-"
      Texas Bar No. 00784931                             6550 Bank of Am .erica Plaza
     Billy E. Wells III                                  901 Main Street
      Texas Bar No. 24042137                             Dallas, Texas 75202-5605
     Locke Lord Bissell &                                Telephone: (214) 231-0555
     Liddell LLP                                         Fa~simge: (214) 231-0556
     2200 Ross Avenue, Suite 2200                        E-mail: iamold~.bcklaw.com
     Dallas, Texas 75201
     Telephone: (214) 740-8000                           ATTOR~IEY FOR U.S. AUTO INSURANCE
     Facsimile: (214) 740-8800                           SERVICES, INC., GAMMA GROUP INC.,
     E-maih t¥oxall@.lockelord.com                       CSI AGENCY SERVICES~ INC., ALPHA
                                                         PARTNERS, LTD., JAMES DOUGLAS
     ATi’ORN .L=YS FOR PLAINTIFF                         MAXWELL allda DOUG MAXWELL,
     LINCOLN GENERAL INSURANCE                           JAMES THORNTON MAXWELL a/k/a JIM
     COMPANY                                             MAXWELL, and SANTA FE AUTO
                                                         INSURANCE COMPANY



