9:18-cv-02755-DCN Date Filed 01/31/19 Entry Number 19-1 Page1of1

Exhibit A
TI I

This Agreement is entered between RAYMOND M. GEE and ADAM A. MARTIN (“Consultants”), on
one hand, and DELTA SPEIR PLANTATION, LLC, a Georgia limited liability company (“Company”), on the
other. The effective date of the Agreement is the date it is last signed.

Whereas, in December 2011, Company purchased a parcel of land located in South Carolina near
Savannah, Georgia, known as “Delta Bluffs;”

Whereas, Company acquired Delta Bluffs as a long-term investment and in reliance upon the planned
construction of the Jasper Port in South Carolina, which was scheduled for construction in 2023, according to the
relied upon appraisal of the Delta Bluffs property;

Whereas, Consultants assisted Company with due diligence and the donation of 100 acres of the property
to Savannah College of Art and Design , and will provide, upon the Company’s request, future consulting services
to enhance the value for the sale of the property; and

Whereas, Company agreed to compensate, as described in this Agreement, Consultants for their
consulting services.

Therefore, the parties agree as follows:

1, Definition. “Profit,” as used herein, is the total proceeds from a sale, less reasonable expenses,
holding costs and expenses relating to transactions regarding the property (i.e. donations, etc).

2. Profit Participation.

a. Profits from Sale. Upon sale of a portion or all of Delta Bluffs by Company, Company shall
pay Consultant twenty-percent (20%) of the Profits from the sale.

b. Profits from Tax Savings. Company or its principal may realize certain tax savings as a

result of the donation of 100 acres of Delta Bluffs to Savannah College of Art and Design, Consultants shall be
entitled to twenty-percent (20%) of such savings, once the risk of a federal or state tax audit has expired, which is
expected to occur in October 2016.

3. Integration. | This Agreement encompasses the entire agreement between the parties in connection
with Delta Bluffs and supersedes all previous agreements and understandings between the parties, whether oral or
written,

a PLANTATION, LLC 5
eS, oy Managing Member al XQ }

SIAL 3/2c [uf
Date /  / Date ~
Spo / vk
Adam A. Martin

7/ bil

Date