PROGRESSIVE CASUALTY INSURANCE COMPANY

(A Stock Insurance Company, herein called the Insurer)

Discovery Period (Activation)

Policy Number: 10032780-01

In consideration of the premium paid te exercise the Discovery Period option, and in reliance upon all statements

made and information contained in the Declarations and Application, the Insurer and the Insured agree that the
Policy is amended as follows:.

}, Pursuant to Section XDI, entitled "Cancellation/Nonrenewal/Conversion’”, this Policy shal] terminate at
12:01 a.m. (local time at the address shown in Item 1 of the Declarations) on 05/13/2009.

2. Subject to all provisions set forth in Section II], this Discovery Period Activation shall only apply to the
coverages identified below:

Discovery | Discovery
; is ; . Period Period
Insuring Agreement oo Retention Premium Effective [Expiration
ety Date Date

Directors and Officers Liability $10,000,000 $160,000 $11,381 05/13/2009 | 05/13/2010

Broad Form Company Liability $5,000,000 $100,000 $8,536 05/13/2009 | 05/13/2010

Securities Liability 310,000,000 $100,000 $5,121 05/13/2009 | 05/13/2010

Fiduciary Liability $5,060,000 $5,000 $1,087 05/13/2009 | 05/13/2010
Brokerage/Advisory Services

Liability $5,000,000 | $100,000 $1,830 05/13/2009 | 05/13/2010

3.

If the Discovery Period is purchased as a result of the Company being acquired or merged with another
entity and the acquiring entity is legally permitted to indemnify the Insured Persons, regardless of
whether actual indemnification is granted, the retention applicable to Insuring Agreement (B) shall apply

to such Loss, unless by reason of its Financial Impairment the acquiring entity does not make
indemnification.

4. Section IV (E) is deleted and replaced as follows:

E. Company, means the entity or entities set forth in Item 1 of the Declarations, any Subsidiary
created or acquired as of the inception date set forth in Item 2 of the Declarations, and, the
acquinng entity, but only for Wrongful Acts involving the entity or entities set forth in Item 1 of
the Declarations and only for Wrongful Acts occurring prior to the termination date of this Policy.

Section XII, entitled "Mergers, Acquisitions and Changes in Business Activities", is deleted in its entirety.

The Discovery Period is noncancellable and the entire premium for this Endorsement shal! be deemed to
be fully earned at its commencement.

EXHIBIT

Page ! of 2
Form No. 2254 (12/06) FDIC No. 27732 |

Case 5:12-cv-04041-MWB-LTS Document 2-1 Filed 04/25/12 Page 1 of 46R9 8
 This Endorsement shall be effective as of 12:01 a.m. on 05/13/2009.

Nothing herein contained shall be held to vary, alter, waive or extend any of the terms, conditions, provisions,
agreements or limitations of the Policy other than as above stated.

Dane A. Shrallow David James Skove
Secretary President
Page 2 of 2
Form No, 2254 (12/06) FDIC No. 27732

; PRG 0067

 ccs CASUALTY NETRENE COMET

(A Stock Insurance Company, herein called the Insurer)

DIRECTORS & OFFICERS / COMPANY LIABILITY INSURANCE POLICY
FOR FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS

DECLARATIONS PAGE
Policy Number: 10032780-01
IMPORTANT NOTICE: This is a claims-made policy written on a no duty to defend basis. Defense Costs are

included within the Limit of Liability. Amounts incurred as Defense Costs will reduce the Limit of Liability
available to pay judgments or settlements. Please read this Policy carefully.

Ment 1. Named Insured(s): vant ederal Sa ares, Inc.
First Federal Bank
First Financial Corporation of Sioux City
Sioux Financial Company
United Escrow, Inc.
Equity Services, Inc.

Sioux Abstract Company
Rerick Abstract Company
Principal Office: 329 Pierce Street
Sioux City, [A 51101
0£11312004
Item 2. Policy Period: From 12:01 a.m. 04/13/2006 To 12:01 a.m. 0443/2009

(Local time at the address shown in Item })

Item 3. Total Policy Limit: The Total Policy Limit for each Policy Year during the Policy Period for all
Insuring Agreements, regardless of whether such Insuring Agreement is paovises as a sublimit or
separate limit, shall not exceed $10,000,000.

Item 4. Discovery Period: If the eligibility requirements are met and the Discovery Period is properly
exercised, the Insured shall pay 75% of the annual premium set forth in Item 10 (a). The length of
the Discovery Period shall be 365 days.

Item 5. Notices: Al) notices required to be given to the Insurer under this Policy shall be addressed to
Progressive Casualty Insurance Company,. Professional Liability Group, 5920 Landerbrook Drive,
PLG-L21, Mayfield Heights, Ohio 44124. Telephone: 800-274-5222.

Page 1 of 3
Form No. 5088 (01/05) FDIC No. 27732

PRG 0068

 | ® @.

Item 6. Coverage(s) Provided: It is understood and agreed that coverage will not be provided under any
Insuring Agreement unless a Limit of Liability, retention and premium for such Insuring Agreement
are set forth below:

Item 7. Item 8. Item 9. Item 10. (a) | Item 10. (b)
“xX” Annual Three-year
. Indicates | Limitof | Retention | Pre-paid Pre-paid
insuring cs escemenn Separate | Liability | . Premium Premium
Limit .
Directors & Officers Liability Coverage
A. Insured Persons Liability N/A $10,000,000 $0 $15,174 $43,246
B. Company Indemnification $100,000
Company Liability Coverage
C. Broad Form Company Liability * N/A | $5,000,000 | $100,000 | $11,381 | —_‘ $32,436
Additional Insuring Agreements
D. Lender Liability (Broad Form) N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A
E. Lender Liability N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A
F. Depositor Liability N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A
G. Secunities Liability N/A $10,000,000 | $100,000 $6,829 $19,463
H. IRA/Kcogh Liability N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A
1. Fiduciary Liability N/A $5,000,000 $5,000 $1,449 $4,130
J. Insurance Services Liability N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A
K. Brokerage/Advisory Services Liability N/A $5,000,000 $100,000 $2,439 $6,95)
L_ Trust Department Liability N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A
M. Employment Practices Liability N/A N/A NA N/A N/A
N. Bankers Professional Liability N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A

The Broad Form Company Liability Insuring Agreement includes coverage for Broad Form
Lender Liability, Depositor Liability, Securities Liability, and HRA/Keogh Liability coverage. If
a different Limit of Liability or retention is desired for any of these coverages, coverage will be
excluded under Insuring Agreement (C) and a separate Insuring Agreement will be provided.

Item 11. IRA/Keogh Liability Retention: The retention for IRA/Keogh Claims pursuant to Section ITV (X)(2)
or the Broad Form Company Liability Insuring Agreement (if applicable), shall be $5,000. If
IRA/Keogh coverage is provided by Endorsement, coverage shall be subject to the retention set forth
in Item 9 above.

Page 2 of 3
Form No. 5088 (01/05) FDIC No. 27732

. PRG 0069

 Item 12. Prior/Pending Litigation Dates:

Insuring Agreement aiste/ Rendiie Insuring Agreement pron eoene
Litigation Date Litigation Date

Directors & Officers Liability ~~ 04/13/2003 Fiduciary Liability 04/13/2003
Broad Form Company Liability 04/13/2003 Insurance Services Liability N/A
Lender Liability (Broad Form) N/A Brokerage/Advisory Services Liability 04/13/2003
Lender Liability NIA Trust Department Liability N/A
Depositor Liability NIA Employment Practices Liability N/A
Securities Liability 04/13/2003 Bankers Professional Liability N/A
IRA/Keogh Liability NIA Other (specify)

Item 13. Endorsements: This Policy is subject to the terms of the following Endorsements attached hereto
and incorporated herein by reference at the effective date of this Policy and to ail other Endorsements
attached hereto after the effective date of this Policy: 2949, 5091, 5093, 5098, 2223, TRIA-01, 8790D

(IA), 500! | 5 0€ > aH

These Declarations, along with the completed and signed Application, including attachments, the Policy and all
Endorsements hereto, shal] constitute the contract between the Insured Persons, the Company and Progressive
Casualty Insurance Company, 6300 Wilson Mills Road, Mayfield Village, Ohio 44143.

Date: Apmnil 4, 2006



Company Officer or Authorized Representative

Page 3 of 3
Form No. 5088 (01/05) FDIC No. 27732

PRG 0070
 PROGRESSIVE CASUALTY INSURANCE COMPANY
(A Stock Insurance Company, herein called the Insurer)

Amendment to Declarations Page
Change Policy Period

Policy Number: 10032780-01

In consideration of the premium paid and in reliance upon all statements made and information contained in the
Declarations and Application, the Insurer and the Insured agreé that the Declarations is amended as follows:

Item 2. Previous Policy Period: FROM: 12:01 a.m. 04/13/2006 TO: 12:01 a.m. 04/13/2009

New Policy Period: FROM: 12:01 a.m. 04/13/2006 TO: 12:01 a.m. 05/13/2009
(Locai time at the address shown in Item 1.)

Item 13. Endorsements: This Policy is subject to the terms of the following Endorsements attached hereto
and incorporated herein by reference at the effective date of this Policy and to all other
Endorsements attached hereto after the effective date of this Policy: 5081, 5082, 2223, 2949,
5091, 5093, 5098, TRIA-01, 8790D (IA)

This Endorsement shall be effective as of 12:01 a.m. on 04/13/2009.

Nothing herein contained shall be held to vary, alter, waive or extend any of the terms, conditions, provisions,
agreements or limitations of the Policy other than as above stated.

Dane A. Shrallow David James Skove
Company Officer or Authorized Representative President

~ Form No. 5082 (06/05) - FDIC No. 27732

PRG 0071

 PROGRESSIVE CASUALTY INSURANCE COMPANY
(A Stock Insurance Company, herein called the Insurer)

Amendment to Declarations Page
Change Name and/or Address

Policy Number: 10032780-01

In consideration of the prernium paid and in reliance upon all statements made and information contained in the
Declarations and Application, the Insurer and the Insured agree.that the Declarations is amended to change the
Named Insured or Principal Address as follows:

Item 1. Named Insured(s): FROM: First Federal Bankshares, Inc.
First Federal Bank
First Financial Corporation of Sioux City
Sioux Financial Company
United Escrow, Inc.
Equity Services, Inc.
Sioux Abstract Company
Rerick Abstract Company

TO: Vantus Bank
Fisst Federal Bankshares, Inc.
First Federal Bank
First Financial Corporation of Sioux City
Sioux Financial Company
United Escrow, Inc.
Equity Services, Inc.
Sioux Abstract Company
Rerick Abstract Company

Item 13. Endorsements: This Policy is subject to the terms of the following Endorsements attached hereto and
incorporated herein by reference at the effective date of this Policy and to all other Endorsements
attached hereto after the effective date of this Policy: 5081, 2223, 2949, 5091, 5093, 5098, TRIA-01,
8790D (IA)

This Endorsement shall be effective as of 12:01 a.m. on 09/04/2007.

Nothing herein contained shall be held to vary, alter, waive or extend any of the terms, conditions, provisions,
agreements or limitations of the Policy other than as above stated.

Prams O. dhrttaw : A a

Dane A. Shrallow Glenn Renwick
Secretary President

Form No 508] (06/05) FDIC No. 27732

Case 5:12-cv-04041-MWB-LTS Document 2-1 Filed 04/25/12 Page 7 of 406°”?
 .

FROCHESE CASUALTY INSURANCE COMPANY
(A Stock Insurance Company, herein called the Insurer)

DIRECTORS & OFFICERS / COMPANY LIABILITY INSURANCE POLICY
FOR FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS

Policy Number: 10032780-01

IMPORTANT NOTICE: This is a claims-made policy written on a no duty to defend basis. Defense Costs

are included within the Limit of Liability. Amounts incurred as Defense Costs will reduce the Limit of
Liability available to pay judgments or settlements. Please read this Policy carefully.

In consideration of the premium paid and in reliance upon all statements made and information contained in the
Declarations and Application, the Insurer and the Insured agree that coverage will be provided subject to all of
the terms, conditions and limitations of this Policy, as follows:

SECTION J - INSURING AGREEMENTS

It is understood and agreed that coverage will not be provided under any Insuring Agreement unless a Limit of
Liability, retention and premium for such Insuring Agreement are set forth in the Declarations.

A. INSURED PERSONS LIABILITY COVERAGE

The Insurer will pay on behalf of the Insured Persons, Loss resulting from Claims first made during
the Policy Period or the Discovery Period against the Insured Persons for which the Insured Persons
are legally obligated to pay for Wrongful Acts, except for Loss the Company pays as indemnification.

B. COMPANY INDEMNIFICATION COVERAGE

The Insurer will pay on behalf of the Company, Loss resulting from Claims first made during the
Policy Period or the Discovery Period against the Insured Persons for which the Company has agreed
to or is legally permitted or required by law to indemnify the Insured Persons for Wrongful Acts.

es BROAD FORM COMPANY LIABILITY COVERAGE

The Insurer will pay on behalf of the Company, Loss resulting from Claims first made during the
Policy Period or the Discovery Period against the Company for which the Company is legally obligated
to pay for Wrongful Acts.

SECTION H - ADDITIONAL COVERAGES

A. ESTATES HEIRS AND MARITAL ESTATE LIABILITY

This Policy shal] cover Loss resulting from Claims for Wrongful Acts of an Insured Person made
against:

Page 1 of 19
Form No. 5089 (01/05) FDIC No, 27732

Case 5:12-cv-04041-MWB-LTS Document 2-1 Filed 04/25/12 Page 8 of 4d" >
 a) the estates, heirs, Jegal representatives or assigns of any Insured Persons who are deceased,
incompetent, insolvent or bankrupt; provided that such Claims would have been covered by this
Policy in the absence of such death, incompetency, insolvency or bankruptcy; and

(2) __ the lawful spouse of an Insured Person solely by reason of such person's status as a spouse or
- such spouse's ownership interest in property which the claimant seeks as recovery for an alleged
Wrongful Act of such Insured Person.

The coverage provided by this Subsection shall not apply with respect to any loss arising from any act or
omission by an Insured Person's estate, heirs, legal representatives, assigns, or spouse.

NOT-FOR-PROFIT DIRECTORSHIPS

This Policy shall cover Loss resulting from Claims for Wrongful Acts committed by Insured Persons
while serving on the board of directors, board of trustees, or as officers of any not-for-profit entity at the
direction of the Company; provided, however, that this coverage shall be excess over any other insurance
or indemnification available to the Insured Persons.

SECTION Li - DISCOVERY PERIOD

If the Company or the Insurer cancels or nonrenews this Policy or any Insuring Agreement, or if the
Policy converts subject to Section XIII (C)(1)(b), the Insured shall have the right to purchase an optional
extended reporting period (herein called the Discovery Period) for the period set forth in Item 4 of the
Declarations. It is understood that if the Insurer cancels this Policy duc to nonpayment of premium, the
Insured shall not be entitled to the Discovery Period.

The Discovery Period is noi an extension of coverage, but rather an extended reporting period for Claims
first made during the Discovery Period resulting from Wrongful Acts that occurred prior to the effective
date of cancellation, nonrenewal or conversion and otherwise covered under this Policy. Notice of facts
and circumstances that may give rise to a Claim, pursuant to Section X (B), must be given during the
Policy Period and shall not be effective if given during the Discovery Period.

If the Insured elects to purchase the Discovery Period, the premium will be calculated by multiplying the
annual premium set forth in Item 10 (a) of the Declarations by the percentage set forth in Item 4 of the
Declarations. The Discovery Period is noncancellable and the entire premium shall be deemed fully
eamed at its commencement.

The Insureds’ right to purchase the Discovery Period shall lapse unless the Insurer receives written
notice of the Insureds’ election and full payment of the additional premium due within sixty (60) days
after the effective date of such cancellation, nonrenewal or conversion.

The Limit of Liability with respect to Claims made during the Discovery Period shall be part of and not
in addition to the Limit of Liability set forth in Item 8 of the Declarations, for each respective Insuring
Agreement, for all Claims made during the immediately preceding Policy Year. Any Claim made during
the Discovery Period shall be deemed to be made during the Policy Year immediately preceding the
Discovery Period.

Page 2 of 19
Form No. 5089 (01/05) FDIC No. 27732

Case 5:12-cv-04041-MWB-LTFS Document 2-1 Filed 04/25/12 Page 9 of 46RS 0074
 The offer by the Insurer @ acceptance by the Insured of continued coverage under terms, conditions,
Limits of Liability, retentions, or premiums different from those applicable to the expiring Policy shall
not constitute a refusal to renew and shall not entitle any Insured to exercise the Discovery Period.

a SECTION IV - DEFINITIONS

Application means all applications, attachments and materials submitted to the Insurer for this Policy or
any Policy of which this Policy is a direct or indirect renewal or replacement. All such applications,
attachments and materials are deemed attached to and incorporated into this Policy, as if physically
attached.

Brokerage/Advisory Services means the purchase or sale of securities, mutual funds, annuities, variable
annuities, life, accident or health insurance which have been approved by the Company to be transacted
through a Registered Representative of the Company or a third party service provider pursuant to a
contract between the Company and the service provider. In connection with the foregoing activities,
Brokerage/Advisory Services also includes the provision of:

(1) economic advice, financia] advice or investment advisory services; and

(2) financial planning advice including without limitation any of the following activities in
conjunction therewith: the preparation of financial plans or personal financial statements, and the
giving of advice with regard to insurance, savings, investments, retirement planning or taxes.

Brokerage/Advisory Services shall not include rendering advice with regard to the FDIC-insured
component of any deposit account or the sale of credit life or disability insurance incidental to the
issuance of a loan.

Claim, either in singular or plural, means any of the following instituted against an Insured Person or
against the Company, but only to the extent coverage is granted to the Company:

(1) a written or oral demand for monetary damages or non-monetary relief,

(2) a civil proceeding commenced by the service of a complaint or similar pleading;

(3) — acriminal proceeding commenced by a return of an indictment;

(4) an arbitration or mediation proceeding in which monetary damages are sought;

(5) a formal administrative or regulatory proceeding commenced by the filing of a notice of charges,
formal investigative order or similar document; or

(6) a written request to toll or waive a statute of limitations, relating to a potential Claim described in
Items (1) through (5) above,

for a Wrongfui Act including any appeal from such proceeding.
COBRA means the Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act, as amended.

Company means the entity or entities set forth in Item 1 of the Declarations, any Subsidiary created or
acquired as of the inception date set forth in Item 2 of the Declarations, and, subject to Section XII (B),
any bank Subsidiary created or acquired during the Policy Period. 3

Page 3 of 19
Form No. 5089 (01/05) FDIC No. 27732

Case 5:12-cv-04041-MWB-LTS Document 2-1 Filed 04/25/12 Page100f40.
 Fs Defense Costs means reasonable and necessary legal fees and expenses incurred in defending or

investigating any Claim and the cost of appeal, attachment or similar bonds. Defense Costs shall not
include salaries, wages, overhead, or benefit expenses incurred by the Insured.

G. ERISA means the Employment Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended.

H. Employee, either in singular or plural, means any natural person, other than a Leased Employee or
Independent Contractor, who is a past, present or future employee of the Company including any part-
time, seasonal or temporary employee, acting in their capacity as such.

I. Financial Impairment means the status of the Company resulting from:

(1) the appointment by any state or federal official, regulatory agency or court of any receiver,
conservator, liquidator, trustee, rehabilitator or similar official to take control of, supervise,
manage, or liquidate the Company or any Subsidiary; or

(2) the Company or any Subsidiary becoming a debtor in possession.

J. Tasured, either in singular or plural, means the Insured Persons and the Company.

K Insured Person, cither in singular or plural, means any past, present or future director, member of the
board of trustees, officer, Employee, honorary or advisory director, or honorary or advisory member of
the board of trustees of the Company.

7 Insurance Services means any of the following services performed by an Insured as insurance agent,
insurance broker, insurance consultant or insurance managing general agent:

(1) sale and placement of insurance;

(2) identification, analysis and evaluation of a client's insurance needs, including work performed for
prospective clients;

(3) appraisal of property and inspections for insurance purposes;
(4) —_ adjustment of claims on behalf of insurance companies, including Joss payments; or
(5) arrangement of premium financing for clients.
M. _Interrelated_ Wrongful Acts means Wrongful Acts which have as a common nexus any fact,

circumstance, situation, event, transaction or series of related facts, circumstances, situations, events or
transactions.

N. Loss means Defense Costs and any amount which the Insured Persons or the Company (if applicable)
are Jegally obligated to pay resulting from a Claim, including damages, judgments, settlements, pre- and
post-judgment interest, punitive or exemplary damages and the multiple portion of any multiplied
damage award where insurable by law. Loss shall not include:

(1) taxes;

(2) criminal or civil fines or penalties imposed by law:

Page 4 of 19
Form No. 5089 (01/05) FDIC No. 27732

Case 5:12-cv-04041-MWB-LTS Document 2-1 Filed 04/25/12 Page 11 of 40PR° 7S
 (3) any unpaid, unrecoverable or outstanding loan, lease or extension of credit to any customer or any
forgiveness of debt;

(4) costs to comply with any non-monetary or injunctive relief of any kind or any agreement to
provide such relief, including but not limited to any damages, costs or expenses incurred in
making an accommodation for any disabled person pursuant to the Americans with Disabilities
Act or any similar federal, state or local laws, or in complying with any other federal, state or
local Jaws of any kind;

(5) other than Defense Costs, that portion of Loss that the Company is obligated to pay pursuant to
any express written or oral contract or agreement existing prior to the date the Claim is made;
provided, however, if it is established in fact that such Claim involves an intentional breach of
contract, the Insured agrees to reimburse the Insurer for such Defense Costs; -

(6) the depreciation (or failure to appreciate) in value of any investment product, including securities,
commodities, currencies, options or futures due to market fluctuation unrelated to any Wrongful
Act;

(7) any restitution, disgorgement, or payment of similar sums including but not limited to the retum
of fees, commissions or charges for the Company's services; or

(8) any matters which are uninsurable under the law pursuant to which this Policy shall be construed.

Loss Information means information on open, closed and potential Claims, including date, description,
and payment amounts, if any.

Named Insured means the first named entity set forth of Item 1 of the Declarations.

Policy means collectively, the Declarations, the Application, this policy form and any Endorsements
attached hereto.

Policy Period means the period from the inception date set forth in Item 2 of the Declarations to the
expiration date set forth in Item 2 of the Declarations or any earlier termination date.

Policy Year means the period of one year following the effective date and hour of this Policy or any
anniversary thereof, or if the time between the effective date and termination of the Policy Period is less
than one year, such lesser period. Any extension of the Policy Period shall not result in an increase or
reinstatement of the Limit of Liability. ]f the Policy Period is extended beyond its original expiration
date, the period of the extension shall be a part of the Policy Year, which would have ended on the
original expiration date.

Pollutants include but are not limited to any solid, liquid, gaseous or thermal organism, nritant or
contaminant, including smoke, vapor, soot, fumes, acids, alkalis, chemicals, hazardous substances,

nuclear materials and waste. Waste includes materials to be recycled, reconditioned or reclaimed.

Registered Representative means an individual who is:

(1) registered with the National Association of Secunties Dealers; or

(2) a life insurance agent or insurance broker who is licensed by the appropriate regulatory
authonties.

Page 5 of 19
Form No. 5089 (01/05) FDIC No. 27732

' PRG 0077

 (1) any entity in which the Company owns, directly or through one or more subsidiaries, more than
fifty percent (50%) of the outstanding securities representing the present right to vote for the
election of directors;

vy, Subsidiary means:

(2) any limited liability company in which the Company, or one or more of its subsidianes, has the
right to appoint or designate fifty percent (50%) or more of such limited lability company's
managers; or

(3) any joint venture in which the Company, or one or more of its subsidiaries, has the right to elect,
appoint or designate more than fifty percent (50%) of such entity's directors, trustees or other
equivalent executives.

W. Trust Department Services means any of the following services performed by an Insured through a
Trust Department or Trust Subsidiary of the Company:

(1) administrator, custodian or trustee under any individual retirement account (IRA) or H.R. 10 Plan
(Keogh Plan);

(2) executor, administrator, or personal representative of estates, administrator of guardianships,
trustee under personal or corporate trust agreements, or conservator of any person;

(3) trustee under a pension, profit sharing, health and welfare or any other employee benefit plan or
trust, other than an employee benefit plan or trust sponsored or established by the Company for
its own Employees;

(4) custodian, depository or managing agent for securities or real property, manager of any personal
property owned by others, attorney-in-fact, interest or dividend disbursing agent, transfer or
paying agent, redemption or subscriptions agent, fiscal agent, tax withholding agent, registrar of
securities, agent for voting securities, sinking fund agent, escrow agent or trustee under a
corporate bond indenture; or

(5) __ trustee exercising any other trust or fiduciary powers permitted by Jaw.

Xx. Wrongful Act, either in singular or plural, means any actual or alleged act, error, omission,
misstatement, misleading statement, neglect or breach of duty by:

QQ) any Insured Person in the discharge of their duties while acting solely in the capacity as such or
while acting solely in the capacity as director, officer, or member of the board of trustees of a not-
for-profit entity pursuant to Section II (B);

(2) any Insured Person in the discharge of their duties while acting solely in the capacity as
administrator, custodian or trustee under any individual retirement account (IRA) or H.R. 10 Plan

(Keogh Plan) outside of the scope of any Trust Department or Trust Subsidiary of the Company;
or

(3) the Company or any person or entity for which the Company is legally responsible, but only to
the extent that coverage is granted to the Company by Insuring Agreement made a part of this
Policy.

SECTION V - EXCLUSIONS APPLICABLE TO ALL INSURING AGREEMENTS

Page 6 of 19
Form No. 5089 (01/05) FDIC No. 27732

Case 5:12-cv-04041-MWB-LTS Document 2-1 Filed 04/25/12 Page 13 of 4@RG 0078
 The following Exclusions are applicable to all Imsureds under all Insuring Agreements made a part of this
Policy. ;

A. Bodily/Personal Injury and Property Damage Exclusion - The Insurer shall not be liable to make any
payment for Loss in-connection with any Claim for actual or alleged bodily injury, sickness, disease, or
death of any person, damage to or destruction of any tangible or intangible property including loss of use
thereof, wrongful entry, eviction, false arrest, false imprisonment, malicious prosecution, abuse of
process, assault, battery, mental anguish, emotional distress, loss of consortium, invasion of privacy,
defamation, false light, libel, or slander.

B. Brokerage/Advisory Services Exclusion - The Insurer shall not be liable to make any payment for
Loss in connection with any Claim arising out of or in any way involving the rendering or failing to
render Brokérage/Advisory Services.

Cc. Collusion Exclusion - The Insurer shall not be Hable to make any payment for Loss in connection with
any Claim by any security holder of the Company, whether directly or derivatively, unless such security
holder bringing such Claim is acting independently of, and totally without the solicitation, assistance,
participation, or intervention of any Insured or any affiliate of the Company.

D. Employment Practices Exclusion - The Insurer shall not be liable to make any payment for Loss in
connection with any Claim arising out of or in any way involving:

(1) wrongful termination, employment-related discrimination or harassment,

(2)  employment-related misrepresentation or retaliation, humiliation, wrongful failure to employ or
promote, wrongful deprivation of career opportunity, wrongful demotion, negligent evaluation,
negligent hiring, negligent retention, wrongful discipline; or

(3) any other violation of any statutory or common law relating to employment.

E. ERISA Exclusion - The Insurer shall not be liable to make any payment for Loss in connection with
any Claim arising out of or in any way involving any pension, profit sharing or employee benefit
program established in whole or in part for the benefit of Employees of the Company, including without
limitation, any violation of ERISA or similar provisions of any federal, state or local statutory law,
common law or administrative law.

F, Foreclosed Property Exclusion - The Insurer shall not be liable to make any payment for Loss in
connection with any Claim arising out of or in any way involving the ownership, operation, management
or control of any entity or property acquired by the Company as security or collateral for any loan, lease
or extension of credit. This Exclusion shall not apply to Claims resulting from Wrongful Acts in
connection with the foreclosure process or the ownership, operation, management or control of any one to
four family residential property.

G. Fraud/Violation of Law Exclusion - The Insurer shall not be liable to make any payment for Loss,
other than Defense Costs, in connection with any Claim arising out of or in any way involving any
fraudulent, dishonest or criminal act or any willful violation of any civil or criminal statute, regulation or
law by the Insured, provided a final judgment or adjudication establishes such fraudulent, dishonest, or
criminal act or such willful violation of statute, regulation or law.

Page 7 of 19
Form No. 5089 (01/05) FDIC No. 27732

Case 5:12-cv-04041-MWB-LTS Document 2:1 Filed 04/25/12 Page 140f40°
 egal Profit/Payment x Pion - The Insurer shall not be liable t0 make any payment for Loss, other
than Defense Costs, in connection with any Claim arising out of or in any way involving, in fact:

(1) gaining any profit, remuneration, or financial advantage to which the Insured was not legally
entitled;

(2) payment by the-Company of inadequate or excessive consideration in connection with its
purchase of Company secunties; or

(3) conflicts of interest, engaging in self-dealing, or acting in bad faith.

Insurance Services Exclusion - The Insurer shall not be liable to make any payment for Loss in
connection with any Claim arising out of or in any way involving the rendering or failing to render
Insurance Services (other than Insurance Services relating to credit life or disability insurance
incidental to the issuance of a loan).

Insured vs. Insured Exclusion - The Insurer shall not be liable to make any payment for Loss in
connection with any Claim by, on behalf of, or at the behest of the Company, any affiliate of the
Company or any Insured Person in any capacity except where such Claim is brought and maintained:

(1) in the form of a cross-claim or third-party claim for contribution or indemnity which is part of and
results directly from a Claim which is not otherwise excluded by the terms of the Policy;

(2) by an Insured Person solely as a customer of the Company; provided such Claim is brought
independently of, and totally without the solicitation, assistance, participation, or intervention of
any other Insured; or

(3) by a security holder of the Company as a derivative action on behalf of the Company or such
affiliate; provided such Claim is brought independently of, and totally without the solicitation,
assistance, participation, or intervention of any Insured or any afhhiate of the Company.

Pollution Exclusion - The Insurer shall not be liable to make any payment for Loss in connection with
any Claim arising out of or in any way involving:

(1) _ the actual, alleged or threatened discharge, disposal, migration, dispersal, release or escape of
Pollutants; or

(2) any direction, order or request to test for, monitor, remediate, clean up, remove, contain, treat, |

detoxify or neutralize Pollutants, or to pay for or contnbute to the costs of undertaking such
actions,

including Claims alleging damage to the Company or its security holders.

Prior Notice Exclusion - The Insurer shal] not be hable to make any payment for Less in connection
with any Claim arising out of or in any way involving any Wrongful Act or any Wronefal Act which is
part of any Interrelated Wrongful Acts, or any fact, circumstance or situation, which has been the
subject of any notice given to any carrier other than the Insurer under any similar insurance policy
providing protection for any Insured.

Page 8 of 19
Form No. 5089 (01/05) FDIC No. 27732

Case 5:12-cv-04041-MWB-LTS Document 2-1 ‘Filed 04/25/12 Page 15 of 46°08
 M. Prior and Pending Litigation Exclusion - The Insurer shall m4 liable to make any payment for
Loss in connection with any Claim arising out of or in any way involving any litigation against any
Insured initiated prior to the respective date set forth in Item 12 of the Declarations, or arising out of or
in any way involving the same or substantially the same fact, circumstance or situation underlying or
alleged in such pnor litigation.

N. Short-Swing Profit Exclusion - The Insurer shall not be liable to make any payment for Loss in
connection with any Claim arising out of or in any way involving an accounting of profits made from the
purchase and sale or sale and purchase of Company securities by the Insured Persons within the
meaning of Section 16(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or similar provisions of
any state statutory law or common law.

O. Subsidiary Wrongful Acts Exclusion - The Insurer shall not be liable to make any payment for Loss in
connection with any Claim against any Subsidiary or its Insured Persons acting in the capacity of
director, member of the board of trustees, officer or Employee of such Subsidiary for any Wrongful Act
or Interrelated Wrongful Acts actually or allegedly committed in whole or in part at any time when the
entity was not a Subsidiary except as provided in Section XJ] (C)(3).

Py Trust Department Services Exclusion - The Insurer shall not be liable to make any payment for Loss
in connection with any. Claim arising out of or in any way involving the rendering or failing to render
Trust Department Services.

SECTION VI - EXCLUSIONS APPLICABLE TO INSURING AGREEMENT (C)

If coverage is set forth on the Declarations, the following Exclusions are applicable to the Company under
Insuring Agreement (C).

A. Bonding/Insurance Company Exclusion - The Insurer shall not be liable to make any payment for
Loss in comection with any Claim that is brought directly or indirectly by or for the benefit of any
insurance carrier or bond carrier of the Company, or any affiliate of the Company, regardless in whose
name such Claim is actually made.

B. Contract Exclusion - The Insurer shall not be liable to make any payment for Loss in connection with
any Claim arising out of or in any way involving the assumption of any liability to defend, indemnify, or
hold harmless any person or entity, other than an Insured Persom, under any written contract or
agreement, unless such hability would be imposed regardless of ‘the existence of such contract or
agreement. ;

C. Fee Dispute Exclusion - The Insurer shall not be liable to make any payment for Loss in connection
with any Claim arising out of or in any way involving disputes over fees, commissions, or charges for the
Company's services.

D. Insolvency Exclusion - The Insurer shall not be liable to make any payment for Loss in connection with
any Claim arising out of or in any way involving the:

(1) ~~“ Financial Impairment of the Company or any Subsidiary;

Page 9 of 19
Fonn Nov. 5089 (01/05) FDIC No. 27732

; PRG 0081
Case 5:12-cv-04041-MWB-LTS . Document 2-1 Filed 04/25/12 : Page 16 of 40.
 (2) insolvency, receivership, liquidation or bankruptcy of any insurance company the Insured
represents; or

(3) bankruptcy of or suspension of payments by any bank, banking firm, broker or dealer in securities
or commodities or any other financial institution.

Internet Services Exclusion - The Insurer shall not be liable to make any payment for Loss in
connection with any Claim arising out of or in any way involving the Company providing:

(1) transactional services through the transmission of data to or from an Internet website or private
computer network owned, operated or controlled by the Company; .

(2) website development, software development or network security services to third parties; or
(3) hosting services or services as an Intemet Service Provider, Internet Access Provider, Application
Service Provider or provider of like services.

Investment Banking/Securities Underwriting Exclusion - The Insurer shall not be liable to make any
payment for Loss in connection with any Claim arising out of or in any way involving:

(1) | underwriting, syndicating or promoting any security (except loan syndications or equity or debt
secunities issued by the Company);

(2) _ rendering of advice or recommendations regarding any actual or attempted or threatened merger,
acquisition, divestiture, tender offer, proxy contest, leveraged buy-out, going private transaction,
bankruptcy, reorganization, restructuring, recapitalization, spin-off, offering of securities,
dissolution or sale of all or substantially all of the assets or stock of an entity;

(3) rendering of any faimess opinion;

(4) __ proprietary trading;

(5) any acquisition or sale of securities of the Company for its own account; or

(6) any other investment banking activity;

including any disclosure requirements in connection with any of the foregoing activities.

Legal Lending Limit Exclusion - The Insurer shall not be liable to make any payment for Loss in

connection with any Claim arising out of or in any way involving any extension of credit which was, at
the time of its making, in excess of the legal lending limit of the Company.

Notary Services Exclusion - The Insurer shal] not be liable to make any payment for Loss in
connection with any Claim arising out of or in any way involving the notarization or certification of a
Signature of a person unless that person or someone claiming to be that person physically appeared before
the Insured at the time of notarization or certification.

Receivership Exclusion - The Insurer shall not be liable to make any payment for Loss in connection
with any Claim arising out of or in any way involving the Company’s function or activity as receiver,
trustee in bankruptcy, or assignee for the benefit of creditors.

Page 10 of 19
Form No. 5089 (01/05) FDIC No. 27732

Case 5:12-cv-04041-MWB-LTS Document 2-1 Filed 04/25/12 Page 17 of 40 PRG 0062
 Safe Deposit Operations sion - The Insurer shall not be liable to make any payment for Loss in
connection with any Claim arising out of or in any way involving the safe deposit box operations of the
Company.

SECTION VII - LIMIT OF LIABILITY, RETENTION AND INDEMNIFICATION

LIMIT OF LIABILITY

(1) The Insurer's maximum Limit of Liability under this Policy for all Insuring Agreements
combined shall not exceed the Total Policy Limit set forth in Item 3 of the Declarations regardless
of whether such Insuring Agreement is provided as a sublimit or a separate limit.

(2) Unless otherwise specified in Item 7 of the Declarations, the Insurer's maximum Limit of
Liability for each Insuring Agreement for all Loss resulting from all Claims first made for each
Policy Year during the Policy Peried shall be a part of and not in addition to the D&O Limit of
Liability set forth in Item 8 of the Declarations.

(3) Ifa Claim against the Company is subject to more than one Insuring Agreement, the Insurer's
maximum Limit of Liability for such Claim shall not exceed the highest Limit of Liability
provided by any Insuring Agreement providing coverage to the Company; provided, however,
that this provision shall not apply where a separate Limit of Liability is set forth in Item 7 of the
Declarations.

(4) The Insurer agrees to provide, without additional charge, a one-time reinstatement of the Limit of
Liability under Insuring Agreement (C) to the extent such Limit of Liability is dimini shed by paid
Loss resulting from IRA/Keogh Claims pursuant to Section IV(X)(2). Should an IRA/Keogh
Liability Claim exhaust the Limit of Liability under Insuring Agreement (C), the Limit of
Liability shall only be reinstated for subsequent Claims. This reinstatement shall not serve to
increase the Limit of Liability for any single Claim.

RETENTION AND INDEMNIFICATION

(1) The Insurer shall only pay for covered Loss, including covered Defense Costs, in excess of the
applicable retention for each Claim as set forth in Item 9 of the Declarations. No retention shall
apply to Loss incurred by the Insured Persons for which the Company is:

(a) not permitted or required by law to advance Defense Costs or indemnify the Insured
Persons; or

(b) permitted or required to advance Defense Costs or indemnify the Insured Persons but
does not do so by reason of Financial Impairment.

(2) If the Company is legally permitted or required to advance Defense Costs or indemnify the
Insured Persons for Loss, regardless of whether actual indemnification or advancement is
granted, the retention applicable to Insuring Agreement (B) shall apply to such Loss, unless the
Company, solely by reason of its Financial Impairment, does not make indemnification or
advancement. |

Page 11 of 19
Form No. 5089 (01/05) FDIC No. 27732

; PRG 0083

 (3) | One retention shall apply to covered Loss resulting from each Claim. If Loss from a Claim is

covered under more than one Insuring Agreement, the applicable retention shall be applied
separately to the part of the Lass covered by each Insuring Agreement, and the sum of such
retentions shall be the retention applicable to the Claim. Ifa single retention applies to multiple
Insureds, the retention shall be prorated among the applicable Insureds. The total retention shall
in no event exceed the largest of such applicable retentions set forth in Item 9 of the Declarations.

(4) Except for the payment of Defense Costs, the Insurer shal] pay or reimburse one hundred percent
(100%) of covered Loss, in excess of the applicable retention, upon final disposition of the Claim.

SINGLE CLAIM

Claims based upon or arising out of the same Wrongful Act or Interrelated Wrongful Acts committed
by one or more Insureds shall be considered a single Claim, and only one retention and Limit of
Liability shall apply to such single Claim. Each such single Claim shall be deemed to be first made on
the date the earliest of such Claims was first made, regardless of whether such date is before or during
the Policy Period.

SECTION VIII - NON-EROSION OF INSURING AGREEMENT (A) AND ORDER OF PAYMENTS

A.

NON-EROSION OF INSURING AGREEMENT (A)

(1) If the Limit of Liability for Insuring Agreement (C) or any Insuring Agreement extending
coverage to the Company is a sublimit of the D&O Policy, the Limit of Liability applicable to
Insuring Agreement (A) shall not be reduced by the payment of Loss resulting from Claims
covered by such Insuring Agreement. If a separate Limit of Liability is set forth in Item 7 of the
Declarations this provision shall not apply.

(2) If the retention applicable to Insuring Agreement (B) applies to Loss pursuant to Section VII
(B)(2), regardless of whether actual indemnification is granted, such Loss shall be deemed to be
paid under Insuring Agreement (B).

ORDER OF PAYMENTS

(1) In the event one or more Claims result in a potential or actual Loss which, in aggregate, in the
Insurer's judgment could reasonably exceed the Total Policy Limit set forth in Item 3 of the
Declarations, then the Insurer shall pay first for such Loss for which coverage is provided under
Insuring Agreement (A).

(2) With respect to whatever remaining amount of the Limit of Liability is available after payment of
such Loss, the Insurer shall pay such Loss for which coverage is provided under Insuring
Agreement (B), then pay such Loss for which coverage is provided to the Company under
Insuring Agreement (C) or any Insuring Agreement extending coverage to the Company.

(3) The Financial Impairment of the Company or any Insured Person shall not relieve the Insurer

of any of its obligations to prioritize payment of covered Loss under this Policy pursuant to this
Subsection.

Page 12 of 19
Form No. 5089 (01/05) FDIC No. 27732

Case 5:12-cv-04041-MWB-LTS Document 2-1 Filed 04/25/12 Page 19 of 4tRG 9084
 ry 7

SECTION IX - DEFENSE COSTS

NO DUTY TO DEFEND

(1) Amounts incurred as Defense Costs will reduce and shall be part of and not in addition to the
applicable Limit of Liability. It shall be the duty of the Insured and not the duty of the Insurer to
defend Claims. The Insured shall only retain counsel that is mutually agreed upon with the
Insurer, consent for which shall not be unreasonably withheld.

(2) The Insured shall not incur Defense Costs, admit liability for, settle, or offer to settle any Claim
without the Insurer's prior written consent, which shall not be unreasonably withheld. The
Insurer shall be entitled to full information and all particulars it may request in order to reach a
decision as to such consent.

(G) The Insurer shall have the right but not the duty to effectively associate with the Insured in the
settlement and defense of any Claim that appears reasonably likely to involve the Insurer. Such
association shall include, but not be limited to, participation in the formation of litigation strategy,
review of pleadings and other pertinent papers prior to filing, and participation in the settlement
negotiations.

ADVANCEMENT OF DEFENSE COSTS

(1) Subject to Section XIV, the Insurer, if requested by the Insured, shall advance covered Defense
Costs on a current basis, except when advancement of Defense Costs is prohibited by law or
regulation. The Insured shall repay any advanced Defense Costs to the Insurer in the event it is
established that the Insurer has no liability under this Policy for such Defense Costs.

(2) Prior to advancing or indemnifying Defense Costs, the Insurer shall be entitled to sufficient
information and documentation as to the amount and purpose of any Defense Costs to enable it to
evaluate the reasonableness and necessity of such Defense Costs and to verify that such Defense
Costs were actually incurred.

SECTION X - NOTICE OF CLAIMS AND POTENTIAL CLAIMS

The Insured, as a condition precedent to any rights under this Policy, shall give the Insurer written
notice, as soon as practicable, of any Claim first made during the Policy Period or the Discovery Period,
but in no event later than sixty (60) days after the Claim is first made.

If during the Policy Period, the Insured first becomes aware of circumstances which may give rise to a
Claim, and gives written notice to the Insurer of the circumstances and reasons for anticipating a Claim,
then any Claim subsequently made shall be deemed to have been first made during the Policy Year in
which notice was first given to the Insurer. As a condition precedent to any coverage hereunder for such
Claims, such notice must be specific and contain full particulars as to the names, dates, and persons
involved in the underlying facts potentially giving rise to the Claim, as well as the identity of the
potential plaintiffs and the causes of action to be asserted.

Page 13 of 19
Form No. 5089 (01/05) FDIC No. 27732

PRG 0085

 . All notices required to be given to the Insurer under this Policy 9.. given to the Insurer at the
address set forth in Item 5 of the Declarations.

SECTION X1 - DUTY TO COOPERATE

The Insured shall promptly furnish the Insurer with all information reasonably requested by the Insurer
including, but not limited to, copies of reports, investigations, pleadings and other papers. As a condition
precedent to coverage under this Policy, the Insured shall provide the Insurer with such information, assistance
and cooperation as the Insurer may reasonably request.

SECTION XII - MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND CHANGES IN BUSINESS ACTIVITIES

A. If during the Policy Period, the Company:
q) acquires, merges with or creates any non-bank entity;

(2) acquires or merges with another entity or creates or acquires a Subsidiary, whose assets equal or
exceed twenty-five percent (25%) of the Company's total assets at the time of the transaction;

(3) creates or acquires a financia) services holding company or converts from a bank holding
company to a financial services holding company;

(4) converts from a mutual company to a stock company; or
(5) changes or converts its corporate structure from a C corporation to an S corporation;

then no coverage shall be afforded under this Policy for any Loss incurred by the Company, such entity,
Subsidiary, or its Insured Persons resulting from any Claim arising out of or in any way involving any
transaction or event, prior to:

(a) the Company providing written notice and any requested information regarding the transaction to
the Insurer as soon as practicable;

(b) the Insurer, at its sole discretion, agreeing in writing to provide such coverage; and

(c) the Company accepting any special terms, conditions and/or Exclusions and paying any
additional premium required by the Insurer.

B. If during the Policy Period, the Company creates or acquires a bank or bank Subsidiary, whose assets
are less than twenty-five percent (25%) of the Company's total assets at the time of the transaction, the
Insurer agrees to provide automatic coverage for such bank, bank Subsidiary and its Insured Persons
for the remainder of the Policy Period.

C. Any coverage otherwise afforded under this Policy for a Loss in any way involving the Company, any
Subsidiary, or any acquired, merged or created entity or its Insured Persons shal] not apply to any
Claim arising out of or directly or indirectly resulting from:

(1) any Wrongful Act or any fact, circumstance or situation committed or allegedly committed prior
to the effective date of such acquisition, merger or ereation; or

Page 14 of 19
Form No. 5089 (01/05) FDIC No. 27732

Case 5:12-cv-04041-MWB-LTS Document 2-1 Filed 04/25/12 Page 21 of 40 PRG 0088
 (2) any other Wrongful Act, which, together with a Wrongfel Act committed or allegedly

committed prior to effective date of such acquisition, merger or creation constitute Interrelated
Wrongful Acts,

SECTION XIII - CANCELLATION / NONRENEWAL / CONVERSION

A. NAMED INSURED CANCELLATION

The Named Insured may cancel this Policy or any Insuring Agreement by providing written notice to
the Insurer. If the Named Insured cancels this Policy, the Insurer shall only rcturn ninety percent.
(90%) of the unearned premium. For multi-year Policies, the Insurer shall only return ninety percent
(90%) of the unearned premium if the cancellation occurs before the first anniversary. If.the cancellation
occurs after the first anniversary, unearned premium will be returned on a prorata basis as soon as
practicable.

B. INSURER CANCELLATION OR NONRENEWAL

(1) The Insurer shall not be required to renew this Policy or any Insuring Agreement upon expiration

' of the Policy Period. This Policy or any Insuring Agreement may be cancelled or nonrenewed by

the Insurer by giving to the Named Insured written notice stating when such action shall

become effective and the reason(s) therefore. Notice will be mailed to the Named Insured by

certified mail at the address set forth in Item 1 of the Declarations. The mailing of such notice as

aforesaid shall be sufficient proof of notice, and this Policy shall terminate at the date and hour
specified in such notice. The Insurer shall provide not less than:

(a) _ twenty (20) days notice of its intent to cancel for nonpayment of premium; or

(b) sixty (60) days notice of its intent to cancel or nonrenew for any other reason.

(2) If the Insurer cancels this Policy or any Insuring Agreement, the Insurer shalj return one
hundred percent (100%) of the unearned premium. The return of any unearned premium by the
Insurer shall not be a condition precedent to the effectiveness of cancellation, but such payment
shall be made as soon as practicable.

C,. CONVERSION

(1) Upon the occurrence of any of the following events, this Policy shall continue in full force and
effect with respect to Claims for Wrongful Acts committed or allegedly committed before such
event, but coverage shall cease with respect to Claims for such Wrongful Acts committed or
allegedly committed after such event:

(a) Financial Impairment of the Company or any Subsidiary comprising more than fifty
percent (50%) of the Company's total assets;

(b) acquisition of the Company by another entity or the merger or consolidation of the
Company into another entity such that the Company is not the surviving entity or
acquisition of substantially all of the assets of the Company by another entity; or

(c) the Company ceasing to engage actively in its primary business.
Page 15 of 19
Form No. 5089 (01/05) FDIC No. 27732

PRG 0087
Case 5:12-cv-04041-MWB-LTS. Document 2-1 Filed 04/25/12 Page 22 o0f40 -
 (2) Pursuant to Subsection (C)(1) above, this Pelicy may not be cancelled and the entire premium
shall be deemed fully eamed. The occurrence of any of the foregoing events shall not affect the
Insured’s right to purchase the Discovery Period pursuant to Section III.

(3) In the event of Financial Impairment of a Subsidiary comprising less than fifty percent (50%)
. of the Company’s total assets, this conversion provision shall apply only to the Subsidiary and
its Insured Persons and the Policy shall continue in full force with respect to al] other Insureds.

SECTION XIV - ALLOCATION AND ARBITRATION

ALLOCATION

(1) ‘If in any Claim the Insureds are jointly and severally liable with others (including the Company
even if no coverage is extended for such Claim against the Company) for Loss, then:

(a) 100% of all Loss, other than Defense Costs, incurred jointly by the Insured Persons and
the Company shall be treated as Loss incurred solely by the Insured Persons; and

(b) all other Loss shall be allocated between the Insured Persons and others based on the
relative legal exposures of the parties to such Claims.

(2) ‘If in any Claim the Insureds incur an amount consisting of both covered and uncovered Loss
because the Claim includes both covered and uncovered matters, then the amount shall be
allocated between covered Loss and uncovered loss based on the relative legal exposures of the
Insureds to the covered and uncovered matters.

ARBITRATION

(1) ‘The Insurer and the Insured agree to use their best efforts to reach a proper allocation of Defense
Costs. If the Insured and the Insurer cannot agree on an allocation:

(a) no presumption as to allocation shall exist in any arbitration, suit or other proceeding;

(b) the Insurer shall advance on a current basis Defense Costs which the Insurer believes to
be covered under this Policy unti] a different allocation is negotiated, arbitrated or
judicially determined; and

(c) the Insurer, if requested by the Insured, shall submit the allocation dispute to binding
arbitration. The rules of the American Arbitration Association shall apply except with
respect to the selection of the arbitration panel. The arbitration panel shall consist of one
arbitrator selected by the Insured, one arbitrator selected by the Insurer, and a third
independent arbitrator selected by the first two arbitrators. In any such arbitration, each
party will bear its own legal fees and expenses.

(2) Any negotiated, arbitrated or judicially determined allocation of Defense Costs will be applied
retroactively to all Defense Costs, notwithstanding any prior advancement to the contrary. Any
allocation or advancement of Defense Costs shall not apply to or create any presumption with
respect to the allocation of other Loss arising from such Claim or any other Claim.

Page 16 of 19
Form No. 5089 (01/05) FDIC No. 27732

Case 5:12-cv-04041-MWB-LTS Document 2-1 Filed 04/25/12 Page 23 of 46°"
 @-. —@-

SECTION XV - REPRESENTATIONS AND SEVERABILITY

REPRESENTATIONS

It is agreed and represented that the particulars and statements contained in the Application are the basis
of this Policy and are to be considered as incorporated into and constituting a part of this Policy. By
acceptance of this Policy, the Insured agrees that:

()) ~—s such Application shall be construed as a separate Application for coverage by each Insured
Person;

(2) this Policy shall not be deemed to be a series of individual insurance contracts with the Company
and each of the Insured Persons; and

(3) the statements in the Application are their representations, that they are material to the acceptance
of the risk or hazard assumed by the Insurer under this Policy, and that this Policy is issued in

reliance upon the truth of such representations.
SEVERABILITY

The Insureds agree that in the event the Application contains misrepresentations made with the actual
intent to deceive, no coverage will be provided under this Policy with respect to:

Qi) any Insured Person who knew of any fact, circumstance or situation that was not truthfully
disclosed in the Application; .

{2) the Company, to the extent the Company indemnifies the Insured Person reflected in Item (1)
above; or

(3) the Company, to the extent coverage is granted to the Company by any Insuring Agreement
made a part of this Policy, if any past, present, or future chief financial officer, in-house counsel,
chief executive officer, President or Chairman of the Board of the Company, or any person
holding any equivalent position within the Company (regardless of title), knew of any fact,
circumstance or situation that was not truthfully disclosed in the Application.

The foregoing conditions shall apply whether or not the Insured Person actually knew if the
misrepresentation or untruthful disclosure was made in the Application for coverage.

SEVERABILITY OF EXCLUSIONS

With respect to the Exclusions herein, in order to determine if coverage is available:

(1) no fact pertaining to or knowledge possessed by any Insured Person will be imputed to any other
' Insured Person; and

(2) all facts pertaining to and knowledge possessed by any past, present, or future chief financial
officer, in-house counsel, chief executive officer, President or Chairman of the Board of the
Company, or any person holding any equivalent position within the Company (regardless of
title), shall be imputed to the Company with respect to Section V, Exclusions (G) and (H).

Page J7 of 19
Form No. 5089 (01/05) FDIC No. 27732

. PRG 0089

 e_ —@

SECTION XVI - GENERAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS

SUBROGATION - In the event of any payment under this Policy, the Insurer shall be subrogated to the
extent of such payment to all the Insured Persons’ and the Company's rights to recovery therefore, and
the Insured shal] execute all papers required and shall do everything that may be necessary to secure the
Insurer's rights, including the execution of such documents as may be necessary to enable the Insurer
effectively to bring suit in the name of the Insured Persons or the Company.

ASSIGNMENT AND ACCEPTANCE - By acceptance of this Policy, the Insured and the Insurer
agree that this Policy, the Application, and any written Endorsements attached thereto constitute the
entire agreement between the parties, Assignment of interest under this Policy shall not bind the Insurer
until its consent is endorsed hereon.

CONFORMITY TO STATUTE - Any terms of this Policy, which are in conflict with the terms of any
applicable laws governing this Policy, are hereby amended to conform to such laws.

AUTHORIZATION - By acceptance of this Policy, the Insureds agrec that the Named Insured will
act on behalf of all Insureds for all purposes under this Policy including, but not limited to, giving and
receiving of all notices and correspondence, cancellation, nonrenewal or termination of this Policy,
payment of premiums, the negotiation and acceptance of Endorsements, and receipt of any return
premiums that may be due under this Policy.

CHANGES - Notice to any agent or knowledge possessed by any agent or other person acting on behalf
of the Insurer shall not effect a waiver or a change in any part of this Policy or estop the Insurer from
asserting any right under the terms of this Policy, nor shall the terms, conditions and limitations of this
Policy be waived or changed, except by written Endorsement issued to form a part of this Policy.

ACTION AGAINST THE INSURER

(1) _—_No action shall be taken against the Insurer unless, as a condition precedent thereto, there shal}
have been full compliance with all the terms of this Policy, and until the Insured's obligation to
pay is finally determined, either by adjudication or a) written agreement of the Insureds, the
claimant, and the Insurer.

(2) —_No person or organization shall have any right under this Policy to join the Insurer as a party to
any Claim against the Insured nor shall the Insurer be impleaded by the Insureds or their legal
representatives in any such Claim.

OTHER INSURANCE OR INDEMNIFICATION - This Policy shall not be subject to the terms of
any other insurance. All Loss, including Defense Costs, payable under this Policy shall be excess to:

Q) any other existing insurance regardless of whether collectable, including but not limited to, any
insurance under which there is a duty to defend, unless such other insurance is written only as
specific excess insurance over the Limits of Liability provided by this Policy; and

(2) indemnification to which an Insured is entitled from any entity other than the Company.

Page 18 of 19
Form No. 5089 (01/05) FDIC No. 27732

Case 5:12-cv-04041-MWB-LTS Document 2-1 Filed 04/25/12 Page 25 oP¥6 2090
 H. LOSS INFORMATION - The Insurer will provide Loss Information to the Company within ten (10)
days of the Company's request or, if required by statute, at the same time as any notice of cancellation or
nonrenewal of this Policy.

I. INSOLVENCY / BANKRUPTCY - The Financial Impairment of the Insured or of the estate of such

Insured shail not release the Insurer from its obligations nor deprive the Insurer of its rights under this
Policy. -

J. PROHIBITION ON STACKING OF COVERAGE - In the event that a Claim is covered under this
Policy and any other policy issued by the Insurer, the Insurer's total liability for the Claim shall not
under any circumstances exceed the largest available Limit of Liability under this Policy or any other
policy issued by the Insurer. This paragraph creates a sublimit, which further limits and does not
increase the Insurer's maximum liability under this Policy or any other policy.

K. HEADINGS AND SUB-HEADINGS - The descriptions in the headings and sub-headings of this Policy
are solely for convenience and form no part of the terms and conditions of coverage.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Insurer has caused this Policy to be signed by its President and Secretary and
countersigned, if required, on the Declarations Page by a duly authorized agent of the Insurer. ;

Dane A. Shrallow Glenn Renwick
Secretary President

Page 19 of 19
Form No. 5089 (01/05) FDIC No. 27732

Case 5:12-cv-04041-MWB-LTS Document 2-1 Filed 04/25/12 Page 26 of Ab oe
 | PROGRESSIVE CASUALTY ‘aURANGE COMPANY
(A Stock Insurance Company, herein called the Insurer)

Exclusion (Securities Liability)

Policy Number: 10032780-01

In consideration of the premium paid and in reliance upon all statements made and information contained in the
Declarations and Application, the Insurer and the Insured agree that Section V of the Policy is amended to add
the following:

Securities Liability Exclusion - The Insurer shall not be liable to make any payment for Loss in connection
with any Claim arising out of or in any way involving the purchase or sale of, or offer to purchase or sell, any
securities issued by the Company. This Exclusion shall not apply to the Securities Liability Insuring Agreement,
Form 5098.

This Endorsement shall be effective as of 12:01 a.m. on 04/13/2006.

Nothing herein contained shall be held to vary, alter, waive or extend any of the terms, conditions, provisions,
agreements or limitations of the Policy other than as above stated.

Form No. 2949 (01/05) FDIC No. 27732

Case 5:12-cv-04041-MWB-LTS Document 2-1 Filed 04/25/12 Page 27 of 46RG 2092
 ware

@
PROGRESSIVE CASUALTY INSURANCE COMPANY
(A Stock Insurance Company, herein called the Insurer)

BROKERAGE/ADVISORY SERVICES LIABILITY INSURING AGREEMENT
Policy Number: 10032780-01

In consideration of the premium paid and in reliance upon all statements made and information contained in the
Declarations and Application, the Insurer and the Insured agree that coverage will be provided subject to all of
‘the terms, conditions and limitations of this Endorsement, as follows:

1. The attached Policy is amended by adding an additional Insuring Agreement as follows:

BROKERAGE/ADVISORY SERVICES LIABILITY INSURING AGREEMENT

K. The Insurer will pay on behalf of the Insured, Loss resulting from Claims first made during the
Policy Period or the Discovery Period against the Insured for which the Insured is legally
obligated to pay for Wrongful Acts in rendering or failing to render Brokerage/Advisory
Services.

2s For the purpose of the coverage afforded by this Endorsement, all of the terms and conditions set forth in
the Policy and any amendments thereto shall apply except:

A. Section II (B), entitled "Not-for-Profit Directorships”, is deleted.

B. All of the Exclusions set forth in Section V, entitled "Exclusions Applicable to all Insuring
Agreements", shall apply except Subsection (B), entitled “Brokerage/Advisory Services
Exclusion", which is deleted.

C. Section V, entitled "Exclusions Applicable to all Insuring Agreements", is further amended to add
the following:

Bonding/Insurance Company Exclusion - The Insurer shall not be liable to make any payment
for Loss in connection with any Claim that is brought directly or indirectly by or for the benefit
of any insurance carrier or bond carrier of the Company, or any affiliate of the Company,
regardless in whose name such Claim is actually made.

Fee Dispute Exclusion - The Insurer shall not be liable to make any payment for Loss in
connection with any Claim arising out of or in any way involving disputes over fees,
commissions, or charges for the Company's services.

Contract Exclusion - The Insurer shall not be lable to make any payment for Loss in
connection with any Claim arising out of or in any way involving the assumption of any liability
to defend, indemnify, or hold harmless any person or entity, other than an Insured Person, under
any written contract or agreement, unless such liability would be imposed regardless of the
existence of such contract or agreement.

Insolvency Exclusion - The Insurer shall not be liable to make any payment for Loss in
connection with any Claim arising out of or in any way involving the:

(1) ‘Financial Impairment of the Company or any Subsidiary;

Page 1 of 3
Form No. 5091(01/05) FDIC No. 27732

PRG 0093
Case 5:12-cv-04041-MWB-LTS Document 2-1 Filed 04/25/12 _Page 28 of 40
 (2) insolvency, receivership, liquidation or bankruptcy of any insurance company the Insured
represents; or ;

(3) bankruptcy of or suspension of payment by any bank, banking firm, broker or dealer in
securities or commodities or any other financial institution,

provided that this Exclusion shall not apply to the extent such Claim alleges a covered Wrongful
Act solely in connection with an Insured's investment on behalf of a customer in the stock of any
of the foregoing entities enumerated in Items (2) and (3) above.

Internet Services Exclusion - The Insurer shall not be liable to make any payment for Loss in
connection with any Claim arising out of or in any way involving the Company providing

(1) transactional services through the transmission of data to or from an Internet website or
private computer network owned, operated or controlled by the Company;

(2) website development, software development or network security services to third parties;
or

(3) hosting services or services as an Internet Service Provider, Intermet Access Provider,
Application Service Provider or provider of like services.

Investment Banking/Securities Underwriting Exclusion - The Insurer shall not be hable to
make any payment for Loss in connection with any Claim arising out of or in any way involving:

(1) underwriting, syndicating or promoting any security (except loan syndications or equity or
debt securities issued by the Company);

(2) rendering of advice or recommendations regarding any actual or attempted or threatened
merger, acquisition, divestiture, tender offer, proxy contest, leveraged buy-out, going
private transaction, bankruptcy, reorganization, restructuring, recapitalization, spin-off,
offering, of securities, dissolution or sale of all or substantially all of the assets or stock of
an entity;

(3) rendering of any fairness opinion;

(4) proprietary trading;

(5) any acquisition or sale of securities of the Company for its own account; or
(6) any other investment banking activity,

including any disclosure requirements in connection with any of the foregoing activities.

Investment Performance Exclusion - The Insurer shall not be liable to make any payment for
Loss, other than Defense Costs, in connection with any Claim arising out of or in any way
involving actual or written representations, promises or guarantees regarding the past performance
or future value of any investment product.

Mechanical Malfunction Exclusion - The Insurer shall not be liable to make any payment for
Loss in connection with any Claim arising out of or in any way involving the mechanical or
electronic failure, breakdown or malfunction of any machine or system of machines.

Receivership Exclusion - The Insurer shall not be liable to make any payment for Loss in
connection with any Claim arising out of or in any way involving the Company's function or
activity as receiver, trustee in bankruptcy, or assignee for the benefit of creditors.

Page 2 of 3
Form No. 5091(01/05) FDIC No. 27732

PRG 0094

 RICO Exclusion - The Insurer shall not be liable to make any payment for Loss in connection
with any Claim arising out or in any way involving violations of the Racketeer Influenced and
Corrupt Organizations Act, as amended. .

3. This Endorsement shall be effective as of 12:01 a.m. on 04/13/2006.

Nothing herein contained shall be held to vary, alter, waive or extend any of the terms, conditions, provisions,
agreements or limitations of the Policy other than as above stated.

Page 3 of 3
Form No. 5091(01/05) FDIC No. 27732

PRG 0095

 ©
| PROGRESSIVE CASUALTY INSURANCE COMPANY

(A Stock Insurance Company, herein called the Insurer) |

FIDUCIARY LIABILITY INSURING AGREEMENT
Policy Number: 10032780-01
In consideration of the premium paid and in reliance upon all statements made and information contained in the
Declarations and Application, the Insurer and the Insured agree that coverage will be provided subject to all of
the terms, conditions and limitations of this Endorsement, as follows:

1. The attached Policy is amended by adding an additional Insuring Agreement as follows:

FIDUCIARY LIABILITY INSURING AGREEMENT

I. The Insurer will pay on behalf of the Insured, Loss resulting from Claims first made during the
Policy Period or the Discovery Period against the Insured for which the Insured is legally
obligated to pay for Wrongful Acts resulting from the Administration of any Employee Benefit
Plan or the violation of any of the responsibilities, obligations or duties imposed by ERISA, and
any regulations applicable thereto, or any common law or statutory law relating to any Employee
Benefit Plan.

2. For the purpose of the coverage afforded by this Endorsement, all of the terms and conditions set forth in
the Policy and any amendments thereto shall apply except:

A. Section I] (B), entitled "Not-for-Profit Directorships", is deleted.
B. Section IV, entitled "Definitions", is amended to add the following:

Administration means counseling Employees with respect to, interpreting, handling records in
connection with, or effecting enrollment or cancellation of Employees under any Employee
Benefit Plan.

Employee Benefit Plan mcans any Employee Welfare Benefit Plan or any Employee Pension
Benefit Plan operated solely by the Company or jointly by the Company and a labor
organization for the benefit of the Employees of the Company.

Employee Pension Benefit Plan means any plan, fund, or program established or maintained by
the Company for its Employees, to the extent that by its express terms or as a result of
surrounding circumstances such plan, fund or program provides retirement income to Employees
or results in a deferral of income by Employees for periods extending to the termination of
employment or beyond.

Employee Welfare Benefit Plan means any plan, fund, or program established or maintained by
the Company for its Employees for the purpose of providing benefits for its participants or their
beneficiaries, through the purchase of insurance or otherwise, including:

Page 1 of 4
Form No, 5093 (01/05) FDIC No. 27732

Case 5:12-cv-04041-MWB-LTS Document 2-1 Filed 04/25/12 Page 310f40"
 (1) _ medical, 4 or hospital care or benefits; benefits in the event of sickness, accident,
disability, death or unemployment; vacation benefits, apprenticeship or other training
programs; day care centers; scholarship funds; prepaid legal services; or

(2) _ any benefit described in Section 186(c) of ERISA.

Cc, Section IV, entitled "Definitions", is further amended to delete and replace the Definition of
Insured and Loss as follows:

J. Insured, cither in singular or ploral, means the Insured Persons, the Company, any
Employee Benefit Plan existing before the Policy Period, any Employee Benefit Plan
created during the Policy Period, and any Employee Benefit Phan acquired during the
Policy Period pursuant to Section XII.

N. Loss means Defense Costs and any amount which the Insured is legally obligated to pay
resulting from a Claim, including damages, judgments, settlements, pre- and post-
judgment interest, punitive or exemplary damages and the multiple portion of any
multiplied damage award where insurable by Jaw. Loss shall not include:

Q) taxes;
(2) criminal or civil fines or penalties imposed by law;

(3) any unpaid, unrecoverable or outstanding loan, lease or extension of credit to any
employee or any forgiveness of debt;

(4) costs to comply with any non-monetary or injunctive relief of any kind or any
apreement to provide such relief, including but not limited to any damages, costs
or expenses incurred in complying with any other federal, state or local laws of any
kind;

(5) any restitution, disgorgement, or payment of similar sums including but not limited
to the return of fees, commissions or charges for the Company's services; or

(6) any matters which are uninsurable under the law pursuant to which this
Endorsement shall be construed.

Loss shall not exclude the five percent (5%) or less, or the twenty percent (20%) or less,
civil penalties imposed under Section 502 (i) or (1), respectively, of ERISA.

D. All of the Exclusions set forth in Section V shall apply except Subsection (E), entitled "ERISA
Exclusion", which is deleted.

E, Section V is further amended to delete and replace Subsection (J) as follows:

J. Insured vs. Insured Exclusion - The Insurer shall not be liable to make any payment for
Loss in connection with any Claim by, on behalf of, or at the behest of the Company, any
affiliate of the Company or any Insured Person in any capacity except where such Claim
is brought and maintained:

Page 2 of 4
Form No. 5093 (01/05) FDIC No. 27732

Case 5:12-cv-04041-MWB-LTS Document 2-1 Filed 04/25/12 Page 32 of 40° a
 ® OD

(1) in the form of a cross-claim or third-party claim for contribution or indemnity
which is part of and results directly from a Claim which is not otherwise excluded
by the terms of the Policy;

(2) by an Insured Person solely as a customer of the Company, provided such Claim
is brought independently of, and totally without the solicitation, assistance,
participation, or intervention of any other Insured;

(3) by a security holder of the Company as a derivative action on behalf of the
Company or such affiliate; provided such Claim is brought independently of, and
totally without the solicitation, assistance, participation, or intervention of any
Insured or any affiliate of the Company; or

(4) by an Insured Person against one or more Insureds for a Claim resulting from a
Wrongful Act involving the Administration of an Employee Benefit Plan.

Section V, entitled "Exclusions Applicable to all Insuring Agreements”, is further amended to add
the following:

Bonding/Insurance Company Exclusion - The Insurer shall not be liable to make any payment
for Loss in connection with any Claim that is brought directly or indirectly by or for the benefit
of any insurance carricr or bond carrier of the Company, or any affiliate of the Company,
regardless in whose name such Claim is actually made.

Contract Exclusion - The Insurer shall not be liable to make any payment for Loss in
connection with any Claim arising out of or in any way involving the assumption of any liability
to defend, indemnify, or hold harmless any person or entity, other than an Insured Person, under
any written contract or agreement, unless such liability would be imposed regardless of the
existence of such contract or agreement.

Failure to Collect Contribution/Benefits Exclusion - The Insurer shall not be liable to make
any payment for Loss, other than Defense Costs, in connection with any Claim for:

(1) _ the failure to collect contributions owed to an Employee Benefit Plan or other Employee
Program unJess such failure is due to the negligence of the Insured;

(2) the retum or reversion to an employee of any contribution or asset; or

(3) benefits paid or payable to a participant or beneficiary of any Employee Benefit Plan or
other Employee Programs, or benefits which would be payable to such a participant or
beneficiary if the Employee Benefit Plan or other Employee Program complied with
applicable law.

Insolvency Exclusion - The Insurer shall not be liable to make any payment for Loss in
connection with any Claim arising out of or in any way involving bankruptcy of or suspension of
payment by any bank, banking firm, broker or dealer in securities or commodities or any other
financial institution.

Page 3 of 4
Form No. 5093 (01/05) FDIC No. 27732

Case 5:12-cv-04041-MWB-LTS Document 2-1 Filed 04/25/12 Page 33 of 46R° 9%
 Violation of Employment Law Exclusion - The Insurer shall ® be liable to make any payment
for Loss in connection with any Claim arising out of or in any way involving an actual or alleged
violation of the responsibilities, obligations or duties imposed by COBRA, any Worker's
Compensation, Unemployment Insurance, Social Security or disability benefits law, the Fair
Labor Standards Act, National Labor Relations Act, Worker Adjustment and Retraining
Notification Act, Occupational Safety and Health Act, any rules or regulations promulgated-under
any of the above statutes, or -similar provisions of any federal, state or local statutory,
administrative or common law.

G. Section VII (A), entitled "Limit of Liability”, is ainended to add the following Subsection:

(5) The Insurer agrees to provide, without additional charge, a one-time reinstatement of the
Limit of Liability under this Endorsement to the extent such Limit of Liability is
diminished by paid Loss resulting from paid Claims under this Endorsement. Should a
Claim exhaust the Limit of Liability under this Endorsement, the Limit of Liability will
only be reinstated for subsequent Claims. This reinstatement shall not serve to increase the
Limit of Liability for any single Claim.

3. This Endorsement shall be effective as of 12:01 a.m. on 04/13/2006.

Nothing herein contained shall be held to vary, alter, waive or extend any of the terms, conditions, provisions,
agreements or limitations of the Policy other than as above stated.

Page 4 of 4
Form No. 5093 (01/05) FDIC No. 27732

PRG 0099

 _ ©

PROGRESSIVE CASUALTY INSURANCE COMPANY
(A Stock Insurance Company, herein called the Insurer)

SECURITIES LIABILITY INSURING AGREEMENT

Policy Number: 10032780-01

In consideration of the premium paid and in reliance upon all statements made and information contained in the
Declarations and Application, the Insurer and the Insured agree that coverage will be provided subject to all of
the terms, conditions and limitations of this Endorsement, as follows:

L, The attached Policy is amended by adding an additional Insuring Agreement as follows:

SECURITIES LIABILITY INSURING AGREEMENT

G. The Insurer will pay on behalf of the Insured, Loss resulting from Claims first made during the
Policy Period or the Discovery Period against the Insured for which the Insured is legally
obligated to pay for Wrongful Acts which in whole or in part is based upon, arises from, or is in
consequence of the purchase or sale of, or offer to purchase or sell, any securities issued by the
Company.

2. For the purpose of the coverage afforded by this Endorsement, all of the terms and conditions set forth in
the Policy and any amendments thereto shall apply except:

A. Section Il (B), entitled "Not-for-Profit Directorships”, is deleted.

B. All of the Exclusions set forth in Section V, entitled "Exclusions Applicable to all Insuring
Agreements”, shall apply and the following are added:

Bonding/Insurance Company Exclusion - The Insurer shall not be liable to make any payment
for Loss in connection with any Claim that is brought directly or indirectly by or for the benefit
of any insurance carrier or bond carrier of the Company, or any affiliate of the Company,
regardless in whose name such Claim is actually made.

Contract Exclusion - The Insurer shall not be liable to make any payment for Loss in
connection with any Claim arising out of or in any way involving the assumption of any liability
to defend, indemnify, or hold harmless any person or entity, other than an Insured Person, under
any written contract or agreement, unless such liability would be imposed regardless of the
existence of such contract or agreement.

Fee Dispute Exclusion - The Insurer shall not be liable to make any payment for Loss in
connection with any Claim arising out of or in any way involving disputes over fees,
commissions, or charges for the Company's services.

Insolvency Exclusion - The Insurer shall not be liable to make any payment for Less in
connection with any Claim arising out of or in any way involving the:

(1) ‘Financial Impairment of the Company or any Subsidiary;

Page 1 of 2
Form No. 5098 (01/05) FDIC No. 27732

Case 5:12-cv-04041-MWB-LTS Document 2-1 Filed 04/25/12 Page 35 of 40PR° 9
 (2) insolvency, receivership, liquidation or bankruptcy of any insurance company the Insured
represents; or

(3) bankruptcy of or suspension of payment by any bank, banking firm, broker or dealer in
securities or commodities or any other financial institution.

Investment Banking/Securities Underwriting Exclusion - The Insurer shall not be liable to

make any payment for Loss in connection with any Claim arising out of or in any way involving:

(1) underwriting, syndicating or promoting any security (except loan syndications or equity or
debt securities issued by the Company);

(2) rendering of advice or recommendations regarding any actual or attempted or threatened
merger, acquisition, divestiture, tender offer, proxy contest, leveraged buy-out, going
private transaction, bankruptcy, reorganization, restructuring, recapitalization, spin-off,
offering of securities, dissolution or sale of all or substantially all of the assets or stock of
an entity;

(3) rendering of any fairness opinion;

(4) proprietary trading;

(5) any acquisition or sale of securities of the Company for its own account; or

(6) any other investment banking activity,

including any disclosure requirements in connection with any of the foregoing activities.
Receivership Exclusion - The Insurer shall not be liable to make any payment for Loss in

connection with any Claim arising out of or in any way involving the Company's function or
activity as receiver, trustee in bankruptcy, or assignee for the benefit of creditors.

3% Section XVI (J), entitled "Prohibition on Stacking of Coverage”, is deleted and replaced as follows:

J. PROHIBITION ON STACKING OF COVERAGE - In the event that a Claim is covered
under this Policy and any other policy issued by the Insurer, the Insurer's total hability for the
Claim shali not under any circumstances exceed the largest available Limit of Liability under this
Policy or any other policy issued by the Insurer. This paragraph creates a sublimit, which further
limits and does not incrcase the Insurer's maximum liability under this Policy or any other
policy.

In the event that coverage for a Claim is available under this Endorsement, no other coverage
shall be afforded for Loss in connection with such Claim under any other Insuring Agreement.

4. This Endorsement shall be effective as of 12:01 a.m. on 04/13/2006.

Nothing herein contained shall be held to vary, alter, waive or extend any of the terms, conditions, provisions,
agreements or limitations of the Policy other than as above stated.

Page 2 of 2
Form No. 5098 (01/05) FDIC No. 27732

Case 5:12-cv-04041-MWB-LTS Document 2-1 Filed 04/25/12 Page 36 of 46° °™"
 ® ©
PROGRESSIVE CASUALTY INSURANCE COMPANY

(A Stock Insurance Company, herein called the Insurer)

Mergers, Acquisitions and Changes in Business Activities
Modification to Section XII

Policy Number: 10032780-01
In consideration of the premium paid and in reliance upon af] statements made and information contained in the

Declarations and Application, the Insurer and the Insured agree that Section XII (A) and (B) of the Policy are
deleted and replaced as follows:

SECTION XII - MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND CHANGES IN BUSINESS ACTIVITIES
A. If during the Policy Period, the Company:
(1) acquires, merges with or creates any non-bank entity;

(2) acquires or merges with another entity or creates or acquires a Subsidiary, whose assets equal or
exceed 20% of the Company's total assets at the time of the transaction;

(3} creates or acquires a financial services holding company or converts from a bank holding company
to a financial services holding company;

(4) converts from a mutual company to a stock company; or

(5) changes or converts its corporate structure from a C corporation to an S corporation.

then no coverage shall be afforded under this Policy for any Loss incurred by the Company, such entity,
Subsidiary, or its Insured Persons resulting from any Claim arising out of or in any way involving any

transaction or event, prior to:

(a) . the Company providing wmitten notice and any requested information regarding the transaction to
the Insurer as soon as practicable;

(b) the Insurer, al its sole discretion, agreeing in wnting to provide such coverage; and

(c) the Company accepting any special terms, conditions and/or Exclusions and paying any additional
premium required by the Insurer. |

B. If during the Policy Period, the Company creates or acquires a bank or bank Subsidiary, whose assets
are Jess than 20% of the Company's total assets at the time of the transaction, the Insurer agrees to
provide automatic coverage for such bank, bank Subsidiary and its Insured Persons for the remainder of
the Policy Period.

All other provisions of Section XII shal] remain unchanged.

Page | of 2
Form No. 2223 (01/05) FDIC No. 27732

Case 5:12-cv-04041-MWB-LTS Document 2-1 Filed 04/25/12 Page370f40
 C) ©

This Endorsement shall be effective as of 12:01 a.m. on 04/13/2006.

Nothing herein contained shall be held to vary, alter, waive or extend any of the terms, conditions, provisions,
agreements or limitations of the Policy other than as above stated.

Page 2 of 2
Form No. 2223 (01/05) FDIC No. 27732

Case 5:12-cv-04041-MWB-LTS Document 2-1 Filed 04/25/12 Page 38 of 4°"
 ©
PROGRESSIVE CASUALTY INSURANCE COMPANY

POLICYHOLDER DISCLOSURE
NOTICE OF TERRORISM INSURANCE COVERAGE

Policy Number: 10032780-01

Coverage for acts of terrorism is already included in your current policy. You should know that, effective
November 26, 2002, under your existing coverage, any losses caused by certified acts of terrorism would be
partially reimbursed by the United States under a formula established by federal law. Under this formula, the
United States pays 90% of covered terrorism losses exceeding the statutorily established deductible paid by the
insurance company providing the coverage. The portion of your annual premium that is attributable to coverage
for acts of terrorism is: $0.00.

I ACKNOWLEDGE THAT I HAVE BEEN NOTIFIED THAT UNDER THE TERRORISM RISK
INSURANCE ACT OF 2002, ANY LOSSES CAUSED BY CERTIFIED ACTS OF TERRORISM UNDER
MY POLICY COVERAGE WILL BE PARTIALLY REJMBURSED BY THE UNITED STATES AND I
HAVE BEEN NOTIFIED OF THE AMOUNT OF MY PREMIUM ATTRIBUTABLE TO SUCH COVERAGE.

Policyholder/Applicant's Signature

Print Name

Date

Form No. TRIA-01 (12/02) FDIC No. 27732

Case 5:12-cv-04041-MWB-LTS Document 2-1 Filed 04/25/12 . Page 39 of 40 _PRO°14
 PROGRESSIVE CASUALTY INSURANCE COMPANY

(A Stock Insurance Company, herein called the Insurer)

Policy Number: 10032780-01

IOWA AMENDATORY ENDORSEMENT

In consideration of the premium paid and in reliance upon all statements made and information contained in the
Declarations and Application, the Insurer and the Insured agree that Section XIII (B)(1) of the Policy is
deleted and replaced as follows:

B. INSURER CANCELLATION OR NONRENEWAL

(1) The Insurer shall not be required to renew this Policy or any Insuring Agreement upon expiration
of the Policy Period. This Policy or any Insuring Agreement may be cancelled or nonrenewed by
the Insurer by giving to the Named Insured written notice stating when such action shall become
effective and the reason(s) therefore. Notice will be mailed to the Named Insured by certified
mail at the address set forth in Item 1 of the Declarations. The mailing of such notice as aforesaid
shall be sufficient proof of notice, and this Policy shall terminate at the date and hour specified in
such notice. The Insurer shall provide not less than:

(a) twenty (20) days notice of its intent to cancel for nonpayment of premium; or

(b) sixty (60) days notice of its intent to nonrenew; or

(c) sixty (60) days notice of its intent to cancel for any of the following reasons:

i.

1.

iil.

iv.

fraud or material misrepresentation made by or with the knowledge of any
Insured Person in obtaining the Policy, continuing the Policy or in presenting
a Claim under the Policy;

activities or omissions on the part of an Insured Person which increase any
hazard insured against, including a failure to comply with loss control
recommendations;

change in the risk which materially increases the risk of Loss after coverage has
been issued or renewed including, but not limited to, an increase in exposure
due to regulation, legislation or court decision;

loss or decrease of the Insurer's reinsurance covering all or part of the risk
exposure by the Policy;

determination by the Director that the continuation of the Policy would
jeopardize the Insurer's solvency or would place the Insurer in violation of
the insurance laws of this state or any other state; or

violation or breach by the Insured of any Policy terms or conditions other than
nonpayment of premium.

All other provisions in Section XIII shall remain unchanged.

This Endorsement shall be effective as of 12:01 a.m. on 04/13/2006.

Nothing herein contained shall be held to vary, alter, waive or extend any of the terms, conditions,
provisions, agreements or limitations of the Policy other than as above stated.

Form No. 8790D (01/05) JA FDIC No. 27732

PRG 0105

