

LIQUIDATING TRUST AGREEMENT

This Liquidating Trust Agreement (the “Trust Agreement”), by and among MORTGAGE FUND
°08 LLC, Debtor-in-Possession in Case Number 11-49803-RLE-11 pending before the United States
Bankruptcy Court for the Northern District of California (the “Debtor”), the OFFICIAL UNSECURED
CREDITORS COMMITTEE appointed in said case (the “Committee”), and SUSAN L. UECKER, as
trustee of the Liquidating Trust (“Trustee”), executed in connection with the Chapter 11 Plan (Dated
December 20, 2011), as the same may be amended (the “Plan’’), which provides for the establishment of
a liquidating trust evidenced hereby (the “Liquidating Trust”) to resolve, liquidate and realize upon the
assets, rights of action and such other claims and property transferred to it by the Debtor pursuant to the
Plan, as successor to and representative of the estate of the Debtor. Except with respect to the terms
defined herein, all capitalized terms contained herein shall have the meanings ascribed to them in the

Plan.

RECITALS

WHEREAS, the Liquidating Trust is created pursuant to, and to effectuate, the Plan;

WHEREAS, the Liquidating Trust is created on behalf of, and for the benefit of, the holders of
allowed Class 2 claims;

WHEREAS, the Liquidating Trust is established for the sole purpose of liquidating its assets for
the benefit of the holders of allowed Class 2 claims and distributing the proceeds to the beneficiaries of
the Trust, pursuant to the Plan, in accordance with Treasury Regulations Section 301.7701-4(d) (all
references to Treasury Regulations, herein, shall refer to Title 26 of the Code of Federal Regulations),
with no objective or authority to continue or engage in the conduct of a trade or business;

WHEREAS, the Liquidating Trust is intended to qualify as a “liquidating trust” within the
meaning of Treasury Regulations Section 301.7701-4(d); and

WHEREAS, any reference herein to a holder of an interest in the Liquidating Trust means a
holder recorded on the official register maintained by the Trustee (the “Register”) and shall not mean
any beneficial owner not recorded on such official registry.

NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and the mutual covenants and agreements

contained herein and in the Plan, the Debtor, the Committee and the Trustee agree as follows:

{006069B620%%4149803 Doc# 101-1 Filed: 12/21/11 Entered: 12/21/11 16:54:26 Page 2
of 19



ESTABLISHMENT OF THE LIQUIDATING TRUST

1.1 Transfer of Property to Trustee: Assignment and Assumption of Claims.

a. Pursuant to the Plan, the Liquidating Trust is hereby established on behalf, and for
the benefit, of holders of allowed Class 2 claims (whether allowed on or after the Effective Date). Upon
the Effective Date of the Plan, the Debtor shall transfer, assign, and deliver to the Trustee all of its right,
title, and interest in each and every asset of the estate free and clear of any lien, claim or interest in such
property of any other person or entity (“the Trust Assets”). The Trustee agrees to accept and hold the
Trust Assets in trust on behalf, and for the benefit, of the holders of the allowed Class 2 claims (whether
allowed on or after the Effective Date), subject to the terms of this Trust Agreement. Upon the transfer
of the Trust Assets, the Trustee shall succeed to all of the Debtor’s right, title and interest in the Trust
Assets and the Debtor will have no further interest in or with respect to the Trust Assets or this
Liquidating Trust.

b. The Debtor hereby transfers and assigns the Trust Assets to the Trustee, and the
Trustee on behalf, and for the benefit, of the Liquidating Trust hereby assumes and agrees that all such
Trust Assets will be transferred to the Liquidating Trust subject to the following liabilities, if any: (i) any
expenses incurred and unpaid, or to be incurred, by the Trustee in the performance of his or her duties
(including, without limitation, the filing of any tax returns and the payment of any taxes shown thereon,
and any tax liability determined to be due and owing pursuant to requests for expedited determinations
under Section 505 of the Bankruptcy Code); and (ii) any obligations owing pursuant to the Plan and
unpaid (including, without limitation, obligations incurred before the Effective Date); but specifically
excluding any claims which have been barred or discharged pursuant to the Plan.

c. The Trustee shall be entitled to transfer to the Trust any and all assets of the
Debtor or its estate and to execute and file or record any agreements, documents and instruments
necessary to effectuate such transfer, in the Trustee’s own name, on behalf of the Debtor or its estate.

1.2 ‘Treatment of Transfer of Trust Assets. As provided in the Plan, the Trust Assets will be

treated by all parties (including, without limitation, the Debtor, the Trustee and the holders of allowed
Class 3 claims) for tax purposes as being transferred (subject to the liabilities specified) by the Debtor to
the holders of allowed Class 2 claims (with each such holder receiving an undivided interest therein pro
rata in proportion to all allowed Class 2 claims), and then by such holders to the Liquidating Trust in
exchange for interests in the Trust for the benefit of such holders (the “Liquidating Trust Interests”), in

accordance with the Plan.

{006069862044 149803 Doc# 101-1 Filed: 12/21/11 Entered: 12/21/11 16:54:26 Page 3
of 19



1.3 Trustee. The Trustee shall be Susan L. Uecker of Uecker & Associates, Inc. and any
successor trustee appointed hereunder.

1.4 Ownership by Trustee. The Trustee shall promptly record or register in his or her name

as trustee, or in the name or names of any nominee or person, in accordance with the terms hereof,
ownership of all Trust Assets received by him or her as Trustee and comply with all provisions of law
that may bear on the evidencing of ownership of and title to any portion of the Trust Assets as are
necessary and appropriate and that the Trustee determines are in the best interests of the Liquidating
Trust. The Trustee shall use a custodian (such as a qualified bank or a company that is a member of a
national securities exchange) to maintain the cash, securities and similar investments of the Liquidating
Trust. |

1.5 Name. The Liquidating Trust shall be named and known as the Mortgage Fund ‘08
Liquidating Trust.

LIQUIDATING TRUST INTERESTS

2.1 Identification of Holders of Liquidating Trust Interests. The record holders of Liquidating

Trust Interests shall be the holders of allowed Class 2 claims, and shall be recorded and set forth in the
Register expressly for such purpose. All references in this Trust Agreement to holders shall be read to
mean holders of record as set forth in the Register and shall not mean any beneficial owner not recorded
on the Register. The Liquidating Trust Interests shall not be evidenced by certificates.

2.2 ‘Transferability of Liquidating Trust Interests. Subject to compliance with applicable law,

the Liquidating Trust Interests are transferable upon written notice to the Trustee, provided, however,
that neither the Liquidating Trust nor the Trustee shall take any steps, directly or indirectly, to facilitate
the development of a secondary market in the Liquidating Trust Interests, includmg without limitation
(i) listing the Liquidating Trust Interests on any national securities exchange or on the NASDAQ Stock
Market, (ii) placing advertisements designed to facilitate the transfer of the Liquidating Trust Interests,
(iii) distributing marketing materials regarding the Liquidating Trust Interests or (iv) collecting or
publishing information regarding prices at which the Liquidating Trust Interests may be transferred.

2.3 Holders of Liquidating Trust Interests Have No Rights in Connection with

Administration of the Liquidating Trust. Except as provided in the Plan, this Trust Agreement grants

exclusive authority over administration of the Liquidating Trust to the Trustee; accordingly, the holders

of Liquidating Trust Interests have no voting rights and no rights to administer the Liquidating Trust.

{O080p9BGRPFY 149803 Doc# 101-1 Filed: 12/21/11 Entered: 12/21/11 16:54:26 Page 4
of 19



PURPOSE, AUTHORITY, LIMITATIONS, DISTRIBUTIONS AND DUTIES

3.1 Purpose of the Liquidating Trust. The Liquidating Trust shall be established for the

purpose of implementation of the Plan by liquidating the Trust Assets and distributing the proceeds to
holders of Liquidating Trust Interests, in accordance with Treasury Regulations Section 301.7701-4(d),
with no objective to continue or engage in the conduct of a trade or business. Accordingly, the Trustee
shall, in an expeditious but orderly manner, liquidate and convert to cash the Trust Assets of the
Liquidating Trust, make timely distributions and not unduly prolong the duration of the Liquidating
Trust. The liquidation of the Trust Assets may be accomplished either through the sale of Trust Assets
(in whole or in combination), including the sale of any rights of action, or through the prosecution or
settlement of any rights of action, or otherwise.

3.2 Authority of Trustee. In connection with the administration of the Liquidating Trust,

except as set forth in this Trust Agreement or the Plan, the Trustee is authorized to perform any and all
acts necessary or desirable to accomplish the purposes of the Liquidating Trust. Except as otherwise
provided in the Plan, nothing in this Trust Agreement shall require the Trustee to file any accounting or
seek approval of any court with respect to the administration of the Liquidating Trust, or as a condition
for managing any payment or distribution out of the Trust Assets, although the Trustee may seek
approval of the Bankruptcy Court for any such action. Without limitation, but subject to the foregoing,
the Trustee shall be expressly authorized to:

a. hold legal title to any and all rights of the holders of the Liquidating Trust
Interests in or arising from the Trust Assets, including but not limited to, collecting, receiving any and
all money and other property belonging to the Liquidating Trust and the right to vote any claim or
interest in a case under the Bankruptcy Code and receive any distribution therein; provided, however,
the Trustee shall have the power to cause legal title (or evidence of title) to any of the Trust Assets to be
held by any nominee, on such terms and in such manner as the Trustee may determine;

b. perform the duties, exercise the powers, and assert the rights of a trustee under
Sections 704, 108 and 1106 of the Bankruptcy Code and be a representative of the Estates for purposes
of Section 1123 of the Bankruptcy Code, including, without limitation, commencing, prosecuting or
settling Reserved Claims, enforcing contracts, and asserting claims, defenses, offsets and privileges;

C. protect and enforce the rights to the Trust Assets by any necessary or appropriate
means, including, without limitation, by judicial proceedings or pursuant to any applicable bankruptcy,
insolvency, moratorium or similar law and general principles of equity;

d. compromise, adjust, arbitrate, sue on or defend, pursue, prosecute, file, abandon,
compromise, settle or otherwise resolve, claims and rights of action in favor of or against the Debtor, the
estate, the Liquidating Trust and the Trustee, including those based upon Sections 544, 547, 548, 549,
550, 551 or 553(b) of the Bankruptcy Code, as the Trustee shall deem advisable, and to take any and
action all necessary or appropriate to the foregoing;

{0060698629%4149803 Doc# 101-1 Filed: 12/21/11 Entered: 12/21/11 16:54:26 Page 5
, of 19

 Case3:14-cv-00993-SI Documenti6-3 Filed07/15/14 Page3é of 49

e. avoid and recover transfers of the Debtors’ property as may be permitted by the
Bankruptcy Code or applicable state law, including, without limitation, those identified in the Disclosure
Statement;

f. determine and satisfy any and all liabilities created, incurred or assumed by the
Liquidating Trust;
g. file all tax and information returns with respect to the Liquidating Trust and pay

taxes properly payable by the Liquidating Trust, if any, including income taxes and employment taxes;

h. exercise any and all rights afforded a debtor under Section 505 of the Bankruptcy
Code to request a prompt determination of the state and federal tax liabilities of the Debtors, whether
such liabilities were incurred prior to the Petition Date or during the pendency of the Debtor’s Chapter
11 Case;

i. execute offsets against claims as provided for in the Plan;

j. assert or waive any privilege or defense on behalf of the Liquidating Trust or the
Debtors;

k. pay any expense incurred by the Liquidating Trust or the Trustee in the course of

administering the Liquidating Trust;

1. pay any fees and reimburse the of expenses of any professionals or employees
employed by PCCC;
m. at the expense of the Liquidating Trust, obtain insurance coverage with respect to

the liabilities and obligations of the Trustee under this Trust Agreement (in the form of an errors and
omissions policy or otherwise);

n. obtain insurance coverage with respect to real and personal property which may
become Trust Assets, if any;

oO. retain and pay legal counsel to the Liquidating Trust to aid in the administration
of the Trust, to prosecute or defend any claims or rights of action that constitute the Trust Assets, and to
perform such other functions as may be appropriate. The Trustee may commit the Liquidating Trust to
indemnify any such parties in connection with the performance of services. A law firm or attorney shall
not be disqualified from serving as counsel to the Liquidating Trust solely because of its prior retention
by the Debtor;

p- retain and pay one or more public accounting firms or public accountants to’
perform such reviews and/or audits of the financial books and records of the Liquidating Trust as may
be appropriate and to prepare and file any tax returns or information returns for the Liquidating Trust as
may be required. The Trustee may commit the Liquidating Trust to indemnify any such parties in
connection with the performance of services. A public accounting firm or public accountant shall not be
disqualified from serving as accountant to the Liquidating Trust solely because of its prior retention by
the Debtor;

q. retain and pay professionals to assist the Trustee in carrying out the powers and
duties of the Trustee under this Trust Agreement. The Trustee may commit the Liquidating Trust to
indemnify any such parties in connection with the performance of services. A professional shall not be

(0060698, RPG4IN9803 Doc# 101-1 Filed: 12/21/11 Entered: 12/21/11 16:54:26 Page 6
of 19



disqualified from rendering services on behalf of the Liquidating Trust solely because of its prior
retention by the Debtor;

r. employ one or more employees to assist the Trustee in carrying out the powers
and duties of the Trustee under this Trust Agreement. The Trustee may commit the Liquidating Trust to,
and shall pay, all such employees compensation, wages or salary in the amounts he or she shall
determine to be appropriate. If the Trustee employs employees pursuant to this Section, the Trustee shall
establish payroll procedures and pay any and all federal, state or local tax withholding required under
applicable law with respect to any such employees, obtain worker’s compensation insurance and take all
other actions he or she deems necessary or appropriate to effectuate the provisions of this Section,
including establishing and adopting or ceasing to provide any employee benefits;

S. invest any moneys held as part of the Liquidating Trust in accordance with the
terms of Section 4.6 hereof, limited to such investments that are consistent with the Liquidating Trust’s
status as a liquidating trust within the meaning of Treasury Regulations Section 301.7701-4(d);

t. request any appropriate tax determination with respect to the Liquidating Trust,
including, without limitation, a determination pursuant to Section 505 of the Bankruptcy Code;

7 u.' seek the examination of any entity under, and subject to, the provisions of
Bankruptcy Rule 2004;
Vv. compromise, adjust, arbitrate, sue on, defend, pursue, prosecute, abandon, settle,

compromise, or otherwise deal with, in accordance with the terms hereof, any actions in favor of or
against the Debtor, the Liquidating Trust or the Trustee;

Ww. seek estimation of contingent or unliquidated claim under Section 502(c) of the
Bankruptcy Code;
x. sell, auction, lease, rent, encumber or transfer any Trust Assets, consistent with

the purposes of the Liquidating Trust, as the Trustee shall deem advisable, and to take any and all
actions necessary or appropriate to accomplish the foregoing;

y- except as otherwise provided in the Plan, abandon any Trust Assets that cannot be
sold or otherwise disposed of for value and whose distribution to holders of Liquidating Trust Interests
would not be feasible or cost-effective based on the judgment and discretion of the Trustee;

Z. file with the Bankruptcy Court the reports and other documents required by the
Plan or otherwise required to close the Chapter 11 Case;

aa. appear in, defend, or otherwise be heard as a party in interest in (i) appeals from
the order confirming the Plan and any proceedings related thereto; (ii) proceedings related to the
enforcement or interpretation of the Plan or the Liquidating Trust Agreement; (iii) proceedings related to
modifications or amendments to the Plan or the Liquidating Trust Agreement; (iv) proceedings related to
the establishment and administration of the Liquidating Trust; and (v) proceedings related to the
allowance of claims for compensation or expenses of counsel, accountants, professionals or employees
employed by the Debtor, the estate, the Trustee or the Liquidating Trust;

bb. _ file motions with the Bankruptcy Court seeking instruction or approval of any
matter affecting the administration of the Liquidating Trust;

(006088'S2294149803 Doc# 101-1 File: 12/21/11 Entered: 12/21/11 16:54:26 Page 7
of 19

 Case3:14-cv-00993-SI Documenti6-3 Filed07/15/14 Page3s of 49

cc. take or refrain from taking any and all actions the Trustee reasonably deems
necessary for the continuation, protection and maximization of the Trust Assets or to carry out the
purposes hereof; and

dd. retain and employ any professionals or employees, as provided herein, without
approval of the Bankruptcy Court.

3.3 Limitation of Trustee’s Authority; Committee Approval.

a. Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, the Trustee shall not engage in
any trade or business, shall not take actions inconsistent with the orderly liquidation of the Trust Assets
and distributions to beneficiaries as are required by applicable law, and shall not take actions
snconsistent with the Plan. Notwithstanding any provisions hereof, the Trustee is not authorized to
engage in any investments or activities inconsistent with the treatment of the Liquidating Trust as a
liquidating trust within the meaning of Treasury Regulations Section 301.7701-4(d).

b. The Trustee shall not commingle any of the Trust Assets with his or her own
property or the property of any other person.

c. Neither the Liquidating Trust nor the Trustee shall take any action that would
result in the Liquidating Trust becoming subject to registration as an “investment company” pursuant to
the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended.

d. The rights and powers of the Trustee, including payment of compensation and
reimbursement of expenses for the Trustee or any professionals or employees employed by the Trustee,
shall be limited to the extent, and in the manner provided in, the Plan.

e. The Trustee of the Liquidating Trust shall be supervised by and shall report to the
Committee. The Trustee shall sell, liquidate, abandon or otherwise dispose of an asset with a gross fair
market value of $5,000 or more only pursuant to approval of the Committee; notwithstanding the
foregoing, the Trustee shall be entitled to take any other action with respect to such assets, as provided
in this Agreement, without obtaining approval of the Committee.

f. Notwithstanding any bylaws or other agreements to the contrary, the Committee
shall conduct business by vote of the majority in number of the members of the Committee constituting
a quorum. A quorum shall be: (1) three members of the Committee; or (2) if the number of members is
reduced to three or fewer, all members of the Committee. A meeting of the Committee may be
convened by the chairperson of the Committee or the Trustee upon reasonable notice, transmitted by
means reasonable under the circumstances, including email. A meeting may be held in person at any
location reasonable under the circumstances or by telephone conference. The Trustee may obtain the

Committee’s approval for any action by email, without a meeting, provided that the Trustee shall notify

{00606926204 41M9803 Doc# 101-1 File4: 12/21/11 Entered: 12/21/11 16:54:26 Page 8
of 19



each member of the Committee by email of her request for approval, and approval shall be deemed to
have been provided pursuant to majority vote upon the Trustee’s receipt of return emails from at least a
quorum of the members after a period of time reasonable under the circumstances. If the Trustee
determines, in her sole discretion, that a meeting of the Committee should be held or approval should be
obtained on an emergency basis, the Trustee shall be entitled to convene a meeting of the Committee
upon 24-hours’ notice, and the Trustee shall be entitled to obtain approval by email upon 24~-hours’
notice.

g. In the event of a dispute between the Trustee and the Committee, or between
either of said parties and any member of the Committee, the dispute shall be resolved by the Bankruptcy
Court after hearing on five (5) calendar days’ notice by any party, unless the Bankruptcy Court shortens
time for cause. |

3.4 Books and Records. The Trustee shall maintain in respect of the Liquidating Trust and

the holders of Liquidating Trust Interests books and records relating to the Trust Assets and income of
the Liquidating Trust and the payment of expenses of, and liabilities of claims against or assumed by,
the Liquidating Trust in such detail and for such period of time as may be necessary to enable him or her
to make full and proper accounting in respect thereof. A holder of a Liquidating Trust Interest may
obtain information relating to the management of the Trust Assets for purposes reasonably related to
such holder’s interests as holder as long as access is reasonably exercised during normal business hours,
after at least ten (10) business days’ written notice to the Trustee, does not constitute an undue burden
on the Trustee, and is not detrimental to the Liquidating Trust. The Trustee may require, to the extent he
or she deems it necessary or appropriate, that any holder requesting information enter into a
confidentiality agreement satisfactory in form and substance to the Trustee prior to obtaining any
information. Nothing in this Trust Agreement provides any holder with a right to review, inspect, seek
discovery of or otherwise obtain any information that is privileged or subject to a third party’s rights of
privacy or confidentiality.

3.5 Additional Powers. Except as otherwise set forth in this Trust Agreement or in the Plan,

and subject to the Treasury Regulations governing liquidating trusts and the retained jurisdiction of the
Bankruptcy Court as provided for in the Plan, but without prior or further authorization, the Trustee may
control and exercise authority over the Trust Assets and over the protection, conservation and
disposition thereof.

3.6 Distributions; Withholding. The Trustee shall make distributions to holders of Class 2

claims within a reasonable time after liquidation of all assets of the Liquidating Trust. The Trustee of

the Liquidating Trust shall be entitled to, but shall not be required to, make additional interim

(00S0F9BGP44 49803 Doc# 101-1 File: 12/21/11 Entered: 12/21/11 16:54:26 Page 9
of 19



distributions to holders of Class 2 claims. The Trustee shall make distributions to holders of Class 1
claims from the proceeds of sales or other disposition of the assets securing said claims. The Trustee of
the Liquidating Trust shall be entitled to withhold from such distribution any and all amounts that the
Trustee determines are required to be withheld by any law, regulation, rule, ruling, order, directive or

other governmental requirement.

3.8 Reporting by the Trustee.

a. Federal Income Tax. Subject to definitive guidance from the Internal Revenue
Service or a court of competent jurisdiction to the contrary (including the receipt by the Trustee of a
private letter ruling if the Trustee so requests one, or the receipt of an adverse determination by the
Internal Revenue Service) upon audit if not contested by the Trustee), the Trustee shall file returns for
the Liquidating Trust as a grantor trust pursuant to Treasury Regulations Section 1.671-4(a).

b. Other Reporting. The Trustee shall file (or cause to be filed) any other statements,
returns or disclosures relating to the Liquidating Trust that are required by any governmental authority.

3.8 | Compliance with Laws. Any and all distributions of Trust Assets and proceeds of

borrowings, if any, shall be in compliance with applicable laws, including, but not limited to, applicable

federal and state securities laws.

THE TRUSTEE OF THE LIQUIDATING TRUST

4.1 Generally. The Trustee’s powers are exercisable solely in a fiduciary capacity consistent
with, and in furtherance of, the purposes of this Liquidating Trust and not otherwise, except that the
Trustee may deal with the Trust Assets as permitted by herein.

4.2 Responsibilities of Trustee. The Trustee shall, in an expeditious but orderly manner,

liquidate and convert to cash the Trust Assets, make timely distributions and not unduly prolong the
duration of the Liquidating Trust. In so doing, the Trustee shall exercise reasonable business judgment
in liquidating the Trust Assets. The liquidation of the Trust Assets may be accomplished through the
sale or transfer of Trust Assets (in whole or in combination), including the sale of any right of action or
through the prosecution or settlement of any or all rights of action, or otherwise. In connection
therewith, the Trustee shall have the power to (a) prosecute for the benefit of the Liquidating Trust all
claims, rights and rights of action transferred, or assigned or contributed, to the Liquidating Trust
whether or not such suits are brought in the name of the Liquidating Trust, the Trustee, the Debtor, the

estate or otherwise for the benefit of the holders of Liquidating Trust Interests, (b) liquidate the Trust

{oosgseAZ POF ¥U9803 Doc# 101-1 Filed! 12/21/11 Entered: 12/21/11 16:54:26 Page 10
of 19



Assets, such as through the sale of assets (in whole or in combination thereof), and (c) otherwise
perform the functions and take the actions permitted or required by the Plan, under applicable law,
pursuant to this Trust Agreement or in any other agreement executed by the Trustee. Any and all

proceeds generated from the Trust Assets shall be the property of the Liquidating Trust.

4.3 Standard of Care; Indemnification, Exculpation.

a. None of the Trustee or the attorneys, accountants, professionals, employees or any
other duly designated agent or representative of the Trustee shall be liable for any act or omission taken
or omitted to be taken in the capacity of Trustee or attorney, accountant, professional, employee or other
agent or representative of the Liquidating Trust, other than acts or omissions resulting from willful
misconduct, gross negligence or fraud.

b. The Trustee may, in connection with the performance of his or her functions, and
in his or her sole discretion, consult with his or her attorneys, accountants and professionals, and shall
not be liable for any act taken, omitted to be taken, or suffered to be done in accordance with advice or
opinions rendered by such persons. Notwithstanding such authority, the Trustee shall not be under any
obligation to consult with his or her attorneys, accountants or professionals, and their determinations
shall not result in the imposition of liability upon the Trustee.

c. The Liquidating Trust shall indemnify and hold harmless the Trustee (and his or
her successors), the Committee, the members of the Committee, and the Trustee’s attorneys,
accountants, professionals, employees and all duly designated agents and representatives of the Trustee
or the Liquidating Trust (in their capacity as such), from and against and in respect of all liabilities,
losses, damages, claims, costs and expenses, including, but not limited to attorney’s. fees and costs
arising out of or due to their actions or omissions, or consequences of their actions or omissions with
respect to the Liquidating Trust or the implementation or administration of the Liquidating Trust;
provided, however, that no such indemnification will be made to such persons for actions or omissions
as a result of willful misconduct, gross negligence or fraud.

d. If the Trustee, the Committee, or members of the Committee become involved in
any action, proceeding, or investigation in connection with any matter arising out of or in connection
with this Trust Agreement or the affairs of the Liquidating Trust or the Committee, the Liquidating Trust
shall periodically advance or otherwise reimburse on demand the Trustee’s or the Committee’s
reasonable legal and other expenses (including, without limitation, the cost of any investigation, and
attorney’s fees, disbursements, and related expenses) incurred in connection therewith, but the Trustee
shall be required to repay promptly to the Liquidating Trust the amount of any such advanced or

reimbursed expenses paid to the Trustee to the extent that it shall be ultimately determined that the

00b SCOT Y-M9803 Doc# 101-1 Filed? 12/21/11 Entered: 12/21/11 16:54:26 Page 11
of 19



Trustee engaged in fraud, willful misconduct, or gross negligence in connection with the affairs of the
Liquidating Trust with respect to which such expenses were paid. The Liquidating Trust may indemnify
and hold harmless the attorneys, accountants, professionals, employees and agents of the Liquidating
Trust to the same extent as provided herein. _

e. The provisions of this Section shall remain available to and be binding on any
former Trustee or the estate of any deceased Trustee, and to any successor Trustee.

f. The Trustee shall only be entitled to indemnification from the Liquidating Trust
under this Section to the extent that it is not covered by insurance, if any.

44 Reliance by Trustee. The Trustee may rely, and shall be fully protected in acting or

refraining from acting, on any resolution, statement, certificate, instrument, opinion, report, notice,
request, consent, order or other instrument or document that the Trustee has no reason to believe to be
other than genuine and to have been signed or presented by the proper party or parties or, in the case of
facsimiles or e-mails to have been sent by the proper party or parties, and the Trustee may conclusively
rely as to the truth of the statements and correctness of the opinions expressed therein. The Trustee may
consult with counsel, and any opinion of counsel shall be full and complete authorization and protection
in respect to any action taken or suffered by the Trustee in accordance therewith.

45 Reliance by Persons Dealing With the Trust. In the absence of actual knowledge to the

contrary, any person dealing with the Liquidating Trust shall be entitled to rely on the authority of the
Trustee to act in connection with the acquisition, management, or disposition of Trust Assets and shall
have no obligation to inquire into the existence of such authority.

4.6 Investment and Safekeeping of Trust Assets. Cash held pending distribution shall, to the

extent permitted by applicable law, be invested by the Trustee in (a) direct obligations of, or obligations
guaranteed by, the United States of America (including without limitation United States Treasury Bills);
(b) obligations of any agency or corporation that is or may hereafter be created by or pursuant to an Act
of the Congress of the United States as an agency or instrumentality thereof; or (c) demand deposits or
short-term certificates of deposit at any bank or trust company that the Trustee deems appropriate. The
scope of any such permissible investments shall be limited to include only those investments, or shall be
expanded to include any additional investments, as the case may be, that a liquidating trust, within the
meaning of Treasury Regulations Section 301.7701-4(d) may be permitted to hold, pursuant to any
amendment or addition to the Internal Revenue Code or to the Treasury Regulations, or any
modification in IRS guidelines whether set forth in IRS rulings, other IRS pronouncements, or
otherwise.

Mf

(o0seseRzZ POF 49803 Doc# 101-1 Filed! 12/21/11 Entered: 12/21/11 16:54:26 Page 12
of 19



4.7 Expense Reimbursement and Compensation.

a. The Trust Assets shall be subject to the claims of the Trustee, and the Trustee and
shall be entitled to reimbursement out of any available cash in the Liquidating Trust, for his, her or its
actual out-of-pocket expenses and against and from any and all loss, liability, expense, or damage which
the Trustee may sustain in good faith and without willful misconduct, gross negligence, or fraud in the
exercise and performance of any of the powers and duties of the Trustee under this Trust Agreement. As
compensation for the performance of his or her duties, the Trustee and his or her employees shall be |

compensated at the following initial hourly rates:

Susan L. Uecker $350
Associates $200
Accounting Staff $100
Administrative Staff $50

No more than once per calendar year, the Trustee may increase said compensation upon ten (10) days’
notice served by mail upon the holders listed in the Register without approval of the Bankruptcy Court.

b. If the cash in the Liquidating Trust is at any time insufficient to compensate and
reimburse the Trustee, including any professionals and other third parties retained by the Trustee, for .
any amounts to which they are entitled hereunder and if the Trustee shall be unable to borrow funds
sufficient for such compensation and reimbursement in accordance with the terms of this Trust
Agreement, then the Trustee may reduce to cash that portion of the Trust Assets necessary so as to effect
such compensation and reimbursement.

4.8 Bond. The Trustee shall serve without bond.

4.9 Confidentiality. The Trustee shall, while serving as Trustee under this Trust Agreement

following the termination of this Trust Agreement or following the earlier of his or her removal or
resignation hereunder, hold strictly confidential and not use for personal gain any material, non-public
information of or pertaining to any entity to which any of the Trust Assets relates or of which he has

become aware in his capacity as Trustee.

SUCCESSOR LIQUIDATING TRUSTEE

5.1 Resignation. The Trustee may resign by filing not less than ninety (90) days’ prior

written notice of the proposed effective date of resignation with the Bankruptcy Court. If the Trustee
resigns, the Bankruptcy Court shall be authorized to appoint a successor Trustee. The Trustee shall

continue to serve as the Trustee after notice of resignation until the proposed effective date unless the

{008959 POF YU9803 Doc# 101-1 Filed? 12/21/11 Entered: 12/21/11 16:54:26 Page 13
of 19



Bankruptcy Court otherwise determines or consents to an earlier effective date, which shall be the date

that appointment of a successor Trustee becomes effective.

5.2 Removal. The Trustee may be removed by the Bankruptcy Court for Cause and upon
reasonable notice. “Cause” means (i) fraud, willful misconduct or gross negligence in connection with
the affairs of the Liquidating Trust, (ii) such physical or mental disability as substantially prevents the
Trustee from performing his or her duties as Trustee hereunder, or (iii) breach of a fiduciary duty or an
unresolved material conflict of interest. The Trustee may be removed by the Committee without cause.
If removed, the Trustee shall be replaced by the Committee or by the Bankruptcy Court if the
Committee is unable to replace the Trustee within a reasonable time.

5.3 Acceptance of Appointment _by Successor Trustee. Any successor Trustee appointed

hereunder shall execute and file with the Bankruptcy Court an instrument accepting such appointment in
form satisfactory to the successor Trustee. Thereupon, such successor Trustee shall, without any further
act, become vested with all the estates, properties, rights, powers, trusts and duties of his or her
predecessor in the Liquidating Trust with like effect as if originally named herein; provided, however,
that a removed or resigning Trustee shall, nevertheless, when requested in writing by the successor
Trustee, execute and deliver an instrument or instruments conveying and transferring to such successor
Trustee under the Liquidating Trust all the estates, properties, rights, powers, and trusts of such
predecessor Trustee.

5.4 Continuance of Trust. The death, resignation, or removal of the Trustee shall not operate

to terminate the Liquidating Trust created by this Agreement or revoke any existing agency (other than
the agency of the former Trustee as Trustee) created pursuant to the term of this Trust Agreement or
invalidate any action taken by the Trustee. The Trustee agrees that the provisions of this Trust
Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the Trustee and the Trustee’s heirs, legal
and personal representatives, successors or assigns, as the case may be. In the event of the resignation or
removal of the Trustee, the Trustee shall promptly (i) execute and deliver by the effective date of
resignation or removal such documents, instruments, and other writings as may be reasonably requested
by the successor Trustee to effect the termination of the resigning or removed Trustee’s capacity under
this Trust Agreement and the conveyance of the Trust Assets then held by the resigning or removed
Trustee to the successor Trustee; (ii) deliver to the successor Trustee all documents, instruments,
records, and other writings relating to the Liquidating Trust as may be in the possession or under the
control of the resigning or removed Trustee; and (iii) otherwise assist and cooperate in effecting the

assumption of the resigning or removed Trustee’s obligations and functions by the successor Trustee.

(o0sgsepZDOF¥ 49803 Doc#101-1 Filed? 12/21/11 Entered: 12/21/11 16:54:26 Page 14
of 19



The resigning or removed Trustee hereby irrevocably appoints the successor Trustee as attorney-in-fact
and agent with full power of substitution for and in his or her name, place and stead to do any and all
such acts that such resigning or removed Trustee is obligated to perform under this Section. Such
appointment shall not be affected by the subsequent disability or incompetence of the Trustee making

such appointment.

REPORTS TO HOLDERS OF LIQUIDATING TRUST INTERESTS

6.1 Securities Laws Reporting. Under section 1145 of the Bankruptcy Code, the issuance of

Liquidating Trust Interests under the Plan shall be exempt from registration under the Securities Act of
1933, as amended, and applicable state and local laws requiring registration of securities, if applicable.
If the Trustee determines that the Liquidating Trust is required to comply with the registration and
reporting or other requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the
Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, then the Trustee shall take any and all actions to comply
with, or qualify for exemption from, such reporting or other requirements and to file periodic reports
with the Securities and Exchange Commission as necessary.

6.2 Tax Reporting. Promptly following the end of each calendar year, the Trustee shall

submit to each holder of a Liquidating Trust Interest appearing on the Register during such year a
separate statement setting forth the holder’s share of items of income, gain, loss, deduction or credit and
will instruct all such holders to report such items on their federal income tax returns. Allocations of
Liquidating Trust taxable income shall be determined by reference to the manner in which an amount of
cash equal to such taxable income would be distributed (without regard to any restrictions on
distributions described herein or in the Plan or Disclosure Statement) if, immediately prior to such
deemed distribution, the Liquidating Trust had distributed all of its other assets (valued for this purpose
at their tax book value) to the holders of Liquidating Trust Interests, taking into account all prior and
concurrent distributions from the Liquidating Trust. Similarly, taxable loss of the Liquidating Trust shall
be allocated by reference to the manner in which an economic loss would be borne immediately after a
liquidating distribution of the remaining Trust Assets. For this purpose, the tax book value of the Trust
Assets shall equal their fair market value on the Effective Date or, if later, the date such assets were
acquired by the Liquidating Trust, adjusted in either case in accordance with tax accounting principles
prescribed by the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, the Treasury Regulations and other

applicable administrative and judicial authorities and pronouncements.

(00695982 2°F 729803 Doc# 101-1 Filed*12/21/11 Entered: 12/21/11 16:54:26 Page 15
of 19

 Case3:14-cv-00993-SI Documenti6-3 Filed07/15/14 Page4é of 49

TERMINATION OF LIQUIDATING TRUST

7.1 Termination of Liquidating Trust. The Liquidating Trust will terminate on the earlier of:

(a) the liquidation, administration and distribution of the Trust Assets and the Reserved Claims, as that
term is defined in the Plan, in accordance with the terms of this Trust Agreement and the Plan, and the
full performance of all other duties and functions set forth herein or in the Plan; and (b) the fifth (Sth)
anniversary of the Effective Date, unless extended by the Bankruptcy Court. The aggregate of all such
extensions shall not exceed three (3) years, unless the Trustee receives a favorable ruling from the
Internal Revenue Service that any further extension would not adversely affect the status of the
Liquidating Trust as a liquidating trust within the meaning of Treasury Regulations Section § 301.7701-
A(d) for federal income tax purposes. The Trustee shall not unduly prolong the duration of the
Liquidating Trust and shall at all times endeavor to resolve, settle or otherwise dispose of all claims that
constitute Trust Assets and to effect the distribution of the Trust Assets to the holders of the Liquidating

Trust Interests in accordance with the terms hereof and terminate the Liquidating Trust as soon as

practicable. Prior to and upon termination of the Liquidating Trust, the Trust Assets will be distributed

to the holders of Liquidating Trust Interests, pursuant to the provisions hereof. If any Trust Assets are
not duly claimed, such Trust Assets will be redistributed to all other holders of Liquidating Trust
Interests receiving Trust Assets pursuant to the terms hereof. The Trustee shall be entitled to take all

steps necessary to terminate the Trust, as provided above, without further order of the Bankruptcy Court.

AMENDMENT AND WAIVER

8.1 Amendment and Waiver. Any substantive provision of this Trust Agreement may be

amended or waived by the Trustee upon approval of the Committee. Notwithstanding this Section, any
amendments to this Trust Agreement shall not be inconsistent with the purpose and intention of the
Liquidating Trust to liquidate in an expeditious but orderly manner the Trust Assets in accordance with

the Plan and Treasury Regulations Section 301.7701-4(d).

MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS

9.1 Intention of Parties to Establish Liquidating Trust. This Trust Agreement is intended to

create a liquidating trust for federal income tax purposes and, to the extent provided by law, shall be

governed and construed in all respects as such a trust and any ambiguity herein shall be construed

(0069senzP°Fy49803 Doc# 101-1 Filed? 12/21/11 Entered: 12/21/11 16:54:26 Page 16
of 19



consistent herewith and, if necessary, this Trust Agreement may be amended to comply with such
federal income tax laws, which amendments may apply retroactively.

9.2 Preservation of Privilege and Defenses. Any attorney-client privilege, work-product

privilege or other privilege or immunity to which the estate or the Debtor are entitled shall vest in the
Liquidating Trust, and the Trustee of the Liquidating Trust shall be entitled to assert such privilege or
immunity to the extent that the Debtor or the estate would be entitled prior to the Effective Date of the
Plan. The Trustee shall be entitled to waive any privilege or immunity in his or her sole discretion.

9.3 Cooperation and Further Assurances of the Debtor. The Debtor shall, upon reasonable

request of the Trustee, execute, acknowledge, and deliver such further instruments and do such further
acts as may be necessary or proper to transfer to the Trustee any portion of the Trust Assets intended to
be conveyed in the form and manner provided for in the Plan and to vest in the Trustee the powers,
instructions, or funds in trust hereunder. The Debtor, for itself and any predecessor or successor entity,
hereby disclaims and waives any and all rights to any reversionary interests in any of the Trust Assets.
The Debtor shall relinquish to the Trustee all of its books and records.

9.4 Laws as to Construction; Jurisdiction of Bankruptcy Court. This Trust Agreement shall

be governed and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of California, without giving effect
to rules governing the conflict of laws, and federal bankruptcy law to the extent applicable. For so long
as the Chapter 11 Case may be pending, the Bankruptcy Court shall have exclusive jurisdiction to
resolve any matters concerning the interpretation or enforcement of this Trust Agreement, and any
disputes arising thereunder or in connection therewith between or among the Trustee and the Debtor, the

Committee, any holder of any Liquidating Trust Interest and any other party in interest.

9.5 Severability. If any provision of this Trust Agreement or the application thereof to any

person or circumstance shall be finally determined by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid or
unenforceable to any extent, the remainder of this Trust Agreement, or the application of such provision
to persons or circumstances other than those as to which it is held invalid or unenforceable, shall not be
affected thereby, and such provision of this Trust Agreement shall be valid and enforced to the fullest
extent permitted by law. .

9.6 Notices. Any notice or other communication hereunder shall be in writing and shall be
deemed to have been sufficiently given, for all purposes, if deposited, postage prepaid, in a post office or
H/

Aff

(008958 PF Y49803 Doc# 101-1 Filed®12/21/11 Entered: 12/21/11 16:54:26 Page 17
of 19



letter box addressed to the person for whom such notice is intended:

If to the Trustee:

Mortgage Fund ’08 Liquidating Trust
c/o Uecker & Associates, Inc.

100 Pine Street, Suite 475

San Francisco, CA 94111

If to the holders of Interests in the Liquidating Trust:

For each holder, notices shall be sent to the address on such holder’s proof
of claim filed with the Court (or if no proof of claim has filed, the address
shown for such claimant in the Debtor’s schedules), unless such holder has
since (1) filed a change of address notification with the Court, or (2)
following the Effective Date, notified the Trustee in writing of such

holder’s change of address.

9.7 Headings. The section headings contained in this Trust Agreement are solely for
convenience of reference and shall not affect the meaning or interpretation of this Trust Agreement or of

any term or provision hereof.

9.8 Relationship to the Plan. The principal purpose of this Trust Agreement is to aid in the

implementation of the Plan and therefore this Trust Agreement incorporates the provisions of the Plan. If
any provisions of this Trust Agreement are found to be inconsistent with the provisions of the Plan, the
provisions of the Plan shall control.

/II

/I/

H/

Hl

Hf

I

HII

HII

HI

(O0sgS9AZDOF¥ 9803 Doc# 101-1 Filed’ 12/21/11 Entered: 12/21/11 16:54:26 Page 18
of 19



IN WITNESS WHEREOPF, the parties hereto have either executed and acknowledged this Trust
Agreement, or caused it to be executed and acknowledged on their behalf by their duly authorized

officers all as of the date first above written.

OFFICIAL UNSECURED CREDITORS COMMITTEE

By:

James Combs
Chairperson

MORTGAGE FUND 708 LLC

By:

Bull Brinkman
Responsible Individual for
Mortgage Fund ’08 LLC

MORTGAGE FUND ‘08 LIQUIDATING TRUST

By:

Susan L. Uecker
Trustee of the
Mortgage Fund ‘08 Liquidating Trust

(00S OR OF 7U9803 Doc# 101-1 Filed® 12/21/11 Entered: 12/21/11 16:54:26 Page 19
of 19