

TRADEMARK LICENSE and COOPERATION AGREEMENT

by and between

RANK LICENSING, INC.

and

PETER A. MORTON

Dated: as of June 7, 1996

(200D7C58.V 1)


TABLE OF CONTENTS

section Page
1. DEFINITIONS ... 2.0... ..020.0.0.00 000000000 cee ee eee ene 1
2. GRANT ... 22. ee eee 3
3. RESERVATION AND OWNERSHIP OF RIGHTS ................... 4
4. QUALITY, NOTICES, APPROVALS, AND SAMPLES ................ 5
3. ARBITRATION ......0.0.0 0.0.00 00000000 cee ee eee 6
6. TRADEMARK AND COPYRIGHT PROTECTION AND INFRINGEMENTS .. . 7
7. INDEMNIFICATION .......0.0.0.0.0.0 0000000. eee eee ee ee eae 7
8. JOINT COOPERATION ......0...0.0 20.0.0... 000 cee ee ee eae 7
9. TERM AND OPTIONS ......0.0.0.0.0.00 0000000 eee eee eee 8
10. SUBLICENSE AND FRANCHISE RIGHTS ....................... 9
11. ENFORCEMENT ...............0.000 000000 eee ene 9
12. NOTICES .........0.. 00.00.00 000002 cc 9
13. RELATIONSHIP OF THE PARTIES ........................0.. 10
14. APPLICABLE LAW AND DISPUTES ......................2.. 10
15. SEVERABILITY..........0000. 0000000000000. eee ae 10
16. SURVIVABILITY ........0...0 0.000000 0000000 cee eee 11
17. INTEGRATION ........ 00.0.0... 0000002 eee ee eee eee 11
18. BINDING EFFECT .............0.00. 0000000000 eee eee eae 11
19. AUTHORITY OF LICENSOR .............200.0.0.0000.00000- 11
20. ENFORCEABILITY ..................0.00 000000000000 eee 11
21. NONCONTRAVENTION .............000 00000008 eee \1
22. WAIVER OF TERMS ............0..000000 0000 cee eee 11
23. ©. AMENDMENT OF AGREEMENT .....................00000. il
LIST OF DEFINITIONS USED ..............0.0.0000.0. 0000000005 eae 13

(200D7C58.V1J) -1-


Exhibit A
Exhibit B
Exhibit C
Exhibit D
Exhibit E

(200D7C58.V 15)

EXHIBITS

Hard Rock Hotel Trademarks and Service Marks
Hard Rock Casino Trademarks

Clause 2(b)(vi) logo example

Clause 2(b)(vii) designations

Clause 2(b)(vili) designations

-ii-

Page 20 of 39


TRADEMARK LICENSE AND COOPERATION AGREEMENT

This Agreement is made and entered into as of June 7, 1996 by and between Rank
Licensing, Inc., a Florida Corporation ("Licensor") and Peter A. Morton ("Licensee").

WITNESSETH:

WHEREAS, Licensor has the right and authority to license the use of the "Hard Rock
Hotel Marks" and the "Hard Rock Casino Marks" as more fully described hereinbelow; and

WHEREAS, Licensor and Licensee desire that Licensor license to Licensee the Hard
Rock Hotel Marks (as defined below) and the Hard Rock Casino Marks (as defined below)
solely for the purposes of operating and promoting the Hard Rock Hotel/Casinos (as defined
below) and the Hard Rock Casinos (as defined below) and providing Licensed Services (as
defined below), and offering for sale and selling merchandise bearing the Hard Rock Hotel

Marks or the Hard Rock Casino Marks in the Hotel/Casinos or Casinos all in the Morton
Territories (as defined below);

NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the above recitals, and for other good and

valuable consideration the receipt and sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged, the parties
hereto agree as follows:

1. DEFINITIONS.

(a) Hard Rock Marks. The term "Hard Rock Marks" as used herein shall
mean and refer to the name “Hard Rock Cafe" and all related and associated trade names,
trademarks, service marks and all other marks and rights of every kind pertaining thereto,
together with the goodwill associated therewith, and shall include the "Hard Rock Cafe" logo
and all confusingly similar names, marks and logos, including, without limiting the generality
of the foregoing, such confusingly similar names as "Rock Cafe", "Hard Rock" and derivations
thereof, to the maximum extent permitted by law. Expressly excluded from this definition are

those Hard Rock Hotel Marks and Hard Rock Casino Marks defined in subparagraphs (b) and
(c) herein.

(b) Hard Rock Hotel Marks. The term "Hard Rock Hotel Marks" as used
herein shall mean the trademarks, tradenames and servicemarks set forth in Exhibit A hereto,
together with the goodwill associated therewith. The Hard Rock Hotel Marks do not include
the Hard Rock Cafe trademarks, tradenames, logos and servicemarks or any other Hard Rock
Marks or all other rights pertaining thereto, except as expressly provided herein.

(c) Hard Rock Casino Marks. The term "Hard Rock Casino Marks" as used
herein shall mean the trademarks, tradenames and servicemarks set forth in Exhibit B hereto,
together with the goodwill associated therewith. The Hard Rock Casino Marks do not include
the Hard Rock Cafe trademarks, tradenames, logos and servicemarks or any other Hard Rock
Marks or all other rights pertaining thereto, except as expressly provided herein.

(d) Hotel. The term "Hotel" as used herein shall mean a facility which is an
all-inclusive place for lodging, with indoor corridors and offering a variety of amenities.

(200D7C58.V 1) -|-


(e) Casino. The term "Casino" as used herein shall mean an establishment
providing gaming facilities, such as slot machines, gaming tables and the like, as a substantial
source of revenue and its principal function. The parties agree that "Riverboats" which derive

a substantial source of revenue, and whose principal function is gaming, are encompassed within
this definition.

(f) Hotel/Casino. The term Hotel/Casino as used herein shall mean a facility
having both a Hotel and Casino, as those terms are defined herein, combined in one facility or
an immediately adjoining contiguous facility, or, if not immediately contiguous, as part of the
same "Hard Rock" complex/development.

(g) Hard Rock Hotel. The term Hard Rock Hotel as used herein shall mean
a Hotel as defined herein operated under the Hard Rock Hotel Marks in the Morton Territories.

(h) Hard Rock Casino. The term Hard Rock Casino as used herein shall

mean a Casino as defined herein operated under the Hard Rock Casino Marks in the Morton
Territories.

(i) Hard Rock Hotel/Casino. The term Hard Rock Hotel/Casino as used
herein shall mean a Hotel/Casino as defined herein operated under the Hard Rock Hotel Marks
and/or the Hard Rock Casino Marks in the Morton Territories.

(j) Hard Rock Facilities. The term "Hard Rock Facilities" as used herein

shall mean Hard Rock Hotel/Casinos, Hard Rock Casinos and Hard Rock Cafe restaurants
collectively.

(k) Morton Territories. The term "Morton Territories" as used herein shall

mean:

The State of Illinois and all states and possessions of the United
States which are located west of the Mississippi River, including
the entire State of Louisiana, but excluding the State of Texas,
except for the "Greater Houston Area", defined to mean that area
which lies within a fifty (50) mile radius from the City Hall or
other similarly recognized civic center structure located reasonably
near the geographic center of the City of Houston; and the nations
of Australia, Brazil, Israel, and Venezuela, and the "Greater
Vancouver Area", which is defined to mean that area which lies
within a fifty (SO) mile radius form the City Hall or other
similarly recognized civic center structure located reasonably near
the geographic center of the City of Vancouver, British Columbia,
Canada.

(1) Licensed Services. The term "Licensed Services" as used herein shall
mean any and all services provided by Licensee in connection with or relating to the operation
of the Hard Rock Hotei/Casinos or Hard Rock Casinos.

(m) Licensed Products. The term "Licensed Products" as used herein shall
mean any and all personal property, products and merchandise bearing the Hard Rock Hotel
Marks or the Hard Rock Casino Marks and offered for sale or sold by Licensee.

(n) Licensor. The term "Licensor" as used herein shall mean Rank Licensing,
Inc., a Florida Corporation or its successors, assigns or transferees.

(200D7C58.V1J) -2-


2. GRANT.

(a) Licensed Rights. On and subject to all of the terms and conditions of this
Agreement (including, but not limited to, clause 3(a) below), Licensor hereby grants Licensee,
an exclusive license to use and exploit the Hard Rock Hotel Marks and the Hard Rock Casino
Marks only in the Morton Territories as defined herein and solely in connection with the
development, operation, ownership, management, operation of and promotion of Hard Rock
Hotel/Casinos and Hard Rock Casinos. Licensee shall not use or exploit the Hard Rock Hotel
Marks or the Hard Rock Casino Marks outside the Morton Territories, except, however,
Licensee may engage in the promotion, advertising or marketing (not including the sale of
merchandise) and broadcasting of the Hard Rock Hotel/Casinos and Hard Rock Casinos
anywhere in the world. Licensor represents and warrants that it owns the rights licensed
hereunder by Licensor subject only to whatever actions or inactions may have been taken or not
taken by Morton regarding ownership of the rights in the Hard Rock Hotel Marks or Hard Rock
Casino Marks in the Morton Territories prior to the date of this Agreement.

(b) Restrictions.

(i) Licensee shall not engage in the use or exploitation of the Hard
Rock Hotel Marks in a Hotel that is not a Hotel/Casino as defined hereinabove in
Section 1(f). However, Licensee may engage in the use or exploitation of the Hard
Rock Casino Marks in connection with a Casino facility as defined herein, that does not
include a Hotel.

(ii) Licensee shall not develop, own, operate or manage any restaurant
in any Hard Rock Hotel/Casino or Hard Rock Casino, or anywhere else that is
confusingly similar to a Hard Rock Cafe restaurant or otherwise infringes the Hard Rock
Cafe trademarks. Nothing herein shall preclude Licensee from developing other types
of restaurants in the Hard Rock Hotel/Casinos and Hard Rock Casinos.

(iii) _ Licensee shall not develop, use, or exploit any Hard Rock Marks
not expressly provided herein without the express written consent of Licensor. Licensor
shall retain the sole right to apply for the registration or renewal of trademarks and
service marks or other proprietary rights for the Hard Rock Hotel Marks and the Hard
Rock Casino Marks in the Morton Territories and anywhere in the world. Licensor
shall consent to any request by Licensee for Licensor to apply for registration or renewal
of the Hard Rock Hotel Marks and Hard Rock Casino Marks. Licensor shall use its
best efforts to maintain, protect and preserve such registrations and execute related
documentation necessary to preserve its trademark rights, including renewals, with the
applicable governmental entities; provided however, that in the event Licensor fails to
do so and the failure would be reasonably likely to affect the Hard Rock Hotel Marks
and/or the Hard Rock Casino Marks in the Morton Territories, then Licensor shall
permit Licensee to prepare the necessary documentation to effectuate such registrations
or otherwise protect Licensor’s trademark rights and execute such documentation at

Licensee’s request to enable Licensee to make the filing for Licensor as Licensor’s agent
and in Licensor’s name.

(iv) Except as expressly provided in subsection 2(b)(v), Licensed
Products shall be sold by Licensee only in a retail establishment located in or contiguous
to a Hard Rock Hotel/Casino or Hard Rock Casino and Licensee shall not open a stand
alone merchandise outlet selling Licensed Products in any location nor shall Licensee sell
any Licensed Products through mail order. Licensor shall not open a stand alone
merchandise outlet in Morton’s Territories where there is both a Hard Rock

(200D7C58.V1}) -3-


Hotel/Casino or Hard Rock Casino and a Hard Rock Cafe restaurant. Except as

provided in clause 2(b)(vii), Licensed Products must always bear the geographic location
where sold.

(v) Licensee may sell Licensed Products through the Internet that bear
the Internet address as the Licensed Products’ location. Licensed Products sold through
the Internet and bearing the Internet designation shall not be sold in the retail
establishments described in subparagraph 2(b)(iv) above nor shall the Licensed Products

sold in such retail establishments be sold through the Internet except for Hard Rock
Internet access kits.

(vi) Except as provided in clause 2(b)(vii) below, Licensee shall use
the representations of the Hard Rock Hotel Marks and the Hard Rock Casino Marks,
with respect to the location of the words in the design logo, only in the manner set forth
in Exhibit C attached hereto, with the words Hard Rock Hotel or Hard Rock Casino
within the circle logo and the geographic or other designation described herein, below
the circle logo. For purposes of designation only, and only within the confines of the
Hard Rock Hotel/Casino or Hard Rock Casino, and not for the sale of merchandise,
Licensee may replace the words identifying the geographic location in the design logo
with the other designations such as "Beach Club" or "Athletic Club". Without the
express written consent of Licensor, Licensee shall not replace the word "Hotel" or
"Casino" with any other designation.

(vii) Licensee shall be permitted to use the designations identified on
Exhibit D and currently in use at the Las Vegas Hard Rock Hotel as of the date of this
Agreement, in other Hard Rock Hotels and/or Hard Rock Casinos developed, operated,
owned, or managed by Licensee, its sublicensee or franchisee. However, merchandise
bearing these designations currently being sold in the Las Vegas Hard Rock Hotel may
continue to be sold only for a period of eighteen months from the date of this Agreement
and shall not be sold at any time in any other Hard Rock Facility developed, operated,
owned, or managed by Licensee, its sublicensee or franchisee.

(vili) Licensee shall be permitted to continue to use the designations
identified on Exhibit E and which are currently in use at the Las Vegas Hard Rock Hotel
as of the date of this Agreement and to sell whatever merchandise is currently being sold
for a period of eighteen months from the date of this Agreement. Thereafter, without
the express written consent of Licensor, Licensee shall forever cease displaying such
designations or selling such merchandise.

(ix) In the event that Licensee develops a Hard Rock Casino on a
riverboat and the jurisdiction governing the riverboat requires the use of certain
terminology, such as "Riverboat" in the title of that facility, Licensee shall be permitted
to use the legally required terminology in connection with the term "Hard Rock" such
as "Hard Rock Riverboat", shall use such term within the circle logo, and shall request

that Licensor apply for the registration of such use as provided in Clause 2(b)(iii)
hereinabove.

3. RESERVATION AND OWNERSHIP OF RIGHTS.

(a) All rights not specifically granted to Licensee hereunder are expressly
reserved by Licensor. Licensee neither has, nor under any circumstances shall gain any
ownership interest in the Hard Rock Hotel Marks or the Hard Rock Casinos Marks. Nothing
herein shall prohibit any use, exploitation, sublicense or franchise of the Hard Rock Hotel

(200D7C58. VL) -4-


Marks or the Hard Rock Casino Marks by Licensor or any affiliated entity outside the Morton
Territories and Licensor has the right to the use and exploitation of the Hard Rock Hotel Marks
anywhere in the world for a Hotel facility that does not include a Casino, except, however,
Licensor cannot, directly or indirectly, own, operate, manage, sublicense or franchise a Hard
Rock Hotel in the State of Nevada. Nothing herein shall prohibit Licensor or Licensee or any
of their affiliated entities from developing, owning, operating or managing a Hotel, a
Hotel/Casino or a Casino that is not operated under the Hard Rock Marks or any confusingly
similar trademarks or tradenames anywhere in the world.

(b) Licensee recognizes the value of the goodwill associated with the Hard
Rock Hotel Marks and Hard Rock Casino Marks and acknowledges that the Hard Rock Hotel
Marks and the Hard Rock Casino Marks have acquired secondary meaning. Licensee agrees,
during the Term of this Agreement or thereafter, never to attack or assist another in attacking
the rights of Licensor or any of its affiliated entities in the Hard Rock Hotel Marks or the Hard

Rock Casino Marks or the validity of the Hard Rock Hotel Marks or the Hard Rock Casino
Marks or the license being granted herein.

(c) Licensee agrees that its use of the Hard Rock Hotel Marks and the Hard
Rock Casino Marks and all associated goodwill generated thereby, inures to the sole benefit of

Licensor in accordance with its rights in the Hard Rock Hotel Marks and the Hard Rock Casino
Marks.

(d) Licensee agrees not to use any word, words, term or terms in conjunction
with the Hard Rock Hotel Marks or the Hard Rock Casino Marks to identify his or its company
and/or Licensed Services which in any way would dominate, modify or qualify the Hard Rock
Hotel Marks or the Hard Rock Casino Marks other than geographical designations.

(e) Licensee agrees not to use the Hard Rock Hotel Marks or the Hard Rock

Casino Marks except pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement unless the parties hereto
agree otherwise in writing.

4. QUALITY, NOTICES, APPROVALS, AND SAMPLES.

(a) The nature and quality of the Licensed Products and the Licensed Services
and all promotional, advertising, and packaging material relating to the Licensed Products and
Licensed Services, and all representations of the Hard Rock Hotel Marks and the Hard Rock
Casino Marks, shall be of good quality at least as high as the quality of similar goods presently
sold or distributed by Licensee and its affiliates in connection with their operation of the Las
Vegas Hard Rock Hotel/Casino. Licensee acknowledges that it is familiar with the nature and
quality of the Licensed Products and Licensed Services, and with the representations of the
Hard Rock Hotel Marks now sold in connection with the Hard Rock Hotel Marks. With respect
to any additional Licensed Services rendered or Licensed Products sold under the Hard Rock
Hotel Marks or the Hard Rock Casino Marks, Licensee agrees that the nature and quality of

such products and services shall be equal to and commensurate with the existing products and
services.

(b) Licensor shall have the right to inspect the quality of the services rendered
and the products sold by Licensee under the Hard Rock Hotel Marks or the Hard Rock Casino
Marks and Licensee shall permit duly authorized representatives of Licensor to have reasonable
access to all areas of the Hard Rock Hotel/Casinos or Hard Rock Casinos for such inspection

purposes during regular business hours and on reasonable notice and in a manner that will not
Cause any disruption to Licensee’s business.

(200D7C58.V1J) -5-


(c) Licensee shall furnish or render to Licensor during such inspections, upon
request for Licensor’s approval and/or testing, requested Licensed Services, representative
samples on the premises of each Licensed Product, their labels, packaging, advertisements, and

all other materials displaying or using the Hard Rock Hotel Marks or the Hard Rock Casino
Marks in relation to the Licensed Products and Licensed Services.

(d) Licensee shall comply in all respects with all federal, state, and local laws
and regulations in regard to said Licensed Products and Licensed Services.

(e) Licensee shall on any and all advertising or promotional materials related
to Licensed Services or Licensed Products utilize the Hard Rock Hotel Marks or the Hard Rock
Casino Marks wherever the same may be used with reasonable convenience. Licensee shall be
obligated to cause the appropriate notice of registration to appear on all such materials.

(f) The parties acknowledge that all rights of Licensor to monitor and
intervene in Licensee’s operations, and all standards of operation set forth herein, are
established solely to ensure the quality of the goods and services associated with the Hard Rock
Hotel Marks and the Hard Rock Casino Marks, and to protect the goodwill accrued in the Hard
Rock Hotel Marks and the Hard Rock Casino Marks.

5. ARBITRATION.

(a) In the event that Licensor should note any substantial failure by Licensee
to maintain in any respect quality standards set forth herein, Licensor shall advise Licensee in
writing of the particular failure or deficiency noted, and Licensee shall correct the same within
thirty (30) days of the mailing of such notice. In the event of any dispute regarding the failure
of Licensee to conform to any provision of quality control as set forth herein or to correct any
such related deficiencies, the dispute shall be resolved by binding arbitration, upon the initiation
of either party by a written notice to the other party demanding arbitration and specifying the
controversy or.claim to be arbitrated. The arbitration shall be conducted by a single arbitrator
or by a panel of three arbitrators as agreed between the parties. The arbitrator(s) shall be
chosen in the manner proscribed by the American Arbitration Association and the arbitration
shall be conducted under auspices, rules and regulations of the American Arbitration Association
with all fees and costs to be shared equally by the parties to the arbitration. The arbitration

forum shall alternate between California and New York with the first arbitration, if any, to take
place in New York.

(b) The arbitrator(s) shall have the power to award any and all remedies and
relief whatsoever that is deemed appropriate under the circumstances, including without
limitation, money damages and equitable relief including without limitation, temporary,
preliminary and permanent injunctions. The discovery process and the procedure whereby the
evidence (oral and/or written) relating to the controversy or claim is presented in the arbitration
Shall be as agreed to by the parties, and in the absence of such agreement, shall be as
determined by the single arbitrator or panel of three arbitrators as the case may be.

(c) The written decision of the arbitrator(s) shall be rendered within thirty (30)
business days following the close of the arbitration hearing. The written decision of the
arbitrator(s) shall be binding and conclusive on the parties thereto and enforceable as provided
by the laws of the State of New York, and judgment on such arbitration decision may be
entered by any court having jurisdiction thereof.

(d) It is expressly acknowledged and agreed that any claims or controversies
not specifically identified hereinabove, including but not limited to claims, controversies or

(200D7C58.V 13) -6§-


disputes relating to the validity of this License Agreement or the validity or enforceability of
any trademark rights hereunder, shall be excluded from arbitration and shall be adjudicated in
a court of competent jurisdiction unless otherwise agreed to by the parties.

6. TRADEMARK AND COPYRIGHT PROTECTION AND INFRINGEMENTS.

(a) Licensor and Licensee agree to use their best efforts to protect the Hard
Rock Hotel Marks and the Hard Rock Casino Marks and the goodwill associated therewith.

(b) Licensee shall not at any time apply for any registration of any copyright,
trademark or other designation which would affect the ownership of or encumber, damage,
dilute or modify the Hard Rock Hotel Marks or the Hard Rock Casino Marks nor file any
document requesting any governmental authority to take any action nor take any action itself

which would affect the ownership of or damage, dilute or modify the Hard Rock Hotel Marks
or the Hard Rock Casino Marks.

(c) Licensee shall at no time use or authorize the use of any service mark,
trademark, trade name or other designation identical with or confusingly similar to the Hard
Rock Hotel Marks or the Hard Rock Casino Marks. However, only as expressly provided
herein in clause 2(b), Licensee may use the "Hard Rock" designation to identify locations,
services or areas at Hard Rock Hotel/Casinos or Hard Rock Casinos but shall not use, sell or
display any merchandise bearing such designations.

(d) The Licensee shall promptly notify the Licensor in writing of any
infringement or suspected infringement of or claim of infringement of any of the Hard Rock
Hotel tradenames, trademarks, service marks or other intellectual property rights relating to the
Hard Rock Hotel Marks and/or Hard Rock Casino Marks of which Licensee becomes aware,
or any action constituting passing off of the Hard Rock Hotel Marks and/or Hard Rock Casino
Marks or any claim for passing off against the Licensee or the Licensor. Licensor and Licensee
each have the right to institute legal action or defend legal action instituted at its own cost and
expense and any monies recovered will be for the account of such party. Each party will lend
all reasonably necessary assistance in any legal action either may institute against any person
infringing or passing off as aforesaid or suspected of doing so. Licensor will always have full
control of any joint proceedings and the cost thereof will be borne equally and any monies
recovered will be divided equally by the Licensee and Licensor in respect of any infringement
or passing off or suspected infringement or passing off within Morton’s Territories. Nothing

in this clause shall be deemed to authorize the Licensee to assume any rights, in the Licensor’s
name.

7. INDEMNIFICATION.

Licensee hereby indemnifies Licensor and undertakes to defend Licensor against, and
hold Licensor harmless from, any suits, loss and damage arising out of any service or act
rendered or performed by Licensee or any assignee or sublicensee of Licensee in connection
with this Agreement, or in relation to the Hard Rock Hotel Marks, or the Hard Rock Casino
Marks or either of them, or out of the sale of any Licensed Products.

8. JOINT COOPERATION.

(a) Promotional Cooperation.

(1) In promotional and/or advertising materials, including national or
international broadcasts, in locations where both parties maintain, directly or indirectly

(200D7C58.V1F} -7-


by license, sublicense or franchise, Hard Rock Facilities, Licensor and Licensee each
agree, when practical and appropriate, to include reference to the other party’s Hard
Rock Facilities in that location. Licensor agrees to display at its Hard Rock Cafe
restaurants in the Morton Territories, on at least a quarterly basis, a table tent, card or
similar promotional table top display, reasonably acceptable to Licensor, referencing the
Hard Rock Hotel/Casinos or Hard Rock Casinos of the Licensee. Such tent, card or

display shall be displayed on a majority of tables in each Hard Rock Cafe for one week
each calendar quarter.

(2) _ Licensor hereby agrees that in connection with any book written
or sponsored by Licensor or its affiliates which describes the Hard Rock Facilities
and/or history, Licensor will include reference to Peter A. Morton as one of the co-
founders of the original Hard Rock Cafe restaurant in London in 1971 and that Peter

Morton developed and established the first Hard Rock Hotel/Casino in Las Vegas in
1995.

(3) Licensor and Licensee agree that in any map designed by either
Licensor or Licensee which identifies all locations where there is a Hard Rock Facility,
all of the Hard Rock Cafe restaurants and the Hard Rock Hotel/Casinos and Hard Rock
Casinos shall be identified in the same size and style.

(4) Licensor and Licensee agree to discuss the possibility of the mutual
sponsorship of events to promote the "Hard Rock" name.

(b) Worldwide Web Site Development _and Maintenance. Licensor may
develop, maintain and update a World Wide Web page for the Hard Rock Cafe Restaurants, and
other Hard Rock Facilities as they may develop except that Licensee may develop, maintain and
update a Web page for the Hard Rock Hotel/Casinos or Casinos in the Morton Territories. In
connection with their respective Web sites, both parties agree to include links to the other
party’s Web pages. Licensor and Licensee shall each bear their own costs and expenses of the
development and maintenance of their respective Web sites.

9. TERM AND OPTIONS.

(a) Term. This Agreement shall commence and be effective as of the date
first set forth above (the "Effective Date") and shall be a license granted in perpetuity.

(b) Royalties. The rights and licenses granted Licensee hereunder shall be
royalty free and fully paid, it being understood and agreed that Licensee shall be solely entitled

to all economic benefits resulting from the right and license to use and exploit the rights granted
hereunder.

(c) First Offer Rights. In the event that Licensee proposes to initiate the sale,
assignment, or conveyance of all or substantially all of his assets and/or rights in connection
with the use and exploitation of the Hard Rock Hotel Marks and Hard Rock Casino Marks
("Transfer Proposal"), Licensee agrees to initiate negotiations and to negotiate in good faith
with Licensor for such sale, assignment or conveyance (a "Transaction"). If Licensee and
Licensor do not agree on the terms and conditions of such proposed Transaction within 30 days
of the initiation of such negotiations, Licensee shall be entitled to pursue such proposed
Transaction with a third party on such terms and conditions as Licensee shall determine in its
sole discretion. If Licensee has not agreed to consummate a Transaction within six months of
the initiation of such good faith negotiations, then, if Licensee again initiates a Transfer
Proposal, Licensee will again initiate negotiations in good faith with Licensor for a Transaction.

(200D7C58.V 13) -8-


10. SUBLICENSE AND FRANCHISE RIGHTS.

Licensee shall have the right to sublicense or franchise any or all of the rights and
licenses granted hereunder. Any sublicense or franchise granted hereunder shall contain
provisions whereby the sublicensee or franchisee agrees to assume, observe and perform all of
the obligations of Licensee and be bound by all of the restrictions under this Agreement and
Licensee shall provide a copy of such sublicense or franchise to Licensor.

11. ENFORCEMENT.

(a) Injunctive Relief. Licensee acknowledges and agrees that the Hard Rock
Hotel Marks and the Hard Rock Casino Marks constitute the unique and valuable property
rights of Licensor, and further acknowledges and agrees that, due to the nature of many of the
terms and provisions of this Agreement, money damages will not compensate Licensor as a
result of any breach of this Agreement by Licensee or any assignee or sublicensee of Licensee.
Accordingly, the parties hereto agree that Licensor shall be entitled to obtain from a court of
competent jurisdiction an injunction or restraining order or obtain a decree for specific
performance of the terms of this Agreement, as applicable and appropriate, without bond.
Further, in the event of a breach by Licensor of the prohibition in clause 3(a) that Licensor
shall not, directly or indirectly, own, operate, manage, sublicense or franchise a Hard Rock
Hotel in the State of Nevada, Licensor and Licensee agree that money damages will not
compensate Licensee as a result of such breach and Licensee shall be entitled to obtain from
a court of competent jurisdiction an injunction or restraining order or obtain a decree for
specific performance of that term. All such remedies shall be in addition to other rights or
remedies sought by Licensor or Licensee or determined by a court of competent jurisdiction to
be appropriate under the circumstances.

(b) Other Remedies. No delay or omission on the part of Licensor or
Licensee in exercising any right or remedy created by this Agreement, arising from any default
hereunder, shall be construed as or deemed to be an acquiescence therein or a waiver of or
limitation upon the right of Licensor or Licensee to exercise, at any time and from time to time
thereafter, any right, power or remedy under this Agreement. No waiver of any breach of this
Agreement shall be construed to be a waiver of or acquiescence in or consent to any preceding
or subsequent breach.

12. NOTICES.

All notices, requests, demands and other communications ("Notices") permitted or
required hereunder shall be in writing and shall be by hand-delivery, certified or registered
mail, postage prepaid, return receipt requested, telecopier, or air courier to the parties set forth
below. Such Notice shall be deemed given at the time personally delivered, if delivered by

hand or by courier; at the time received if sent certified or registered mail; when receipt
acknowledged by telecopy, if telecopied.

In the case of Licensor: Hard Rock Cafe International (DEL), Inc.
5401 Kirkman Road, Suite 200
Orlando, Florida 32819
Attention: President
Telephone No.: 407-351-6000
Telecopy No.: 407-352-2596

(200D7C58.V1J) -9-


with a copy to: Keck, Mahin & Cate
77 West Wacker Drive, 41st Floor
Chicago, Illinois 60601-1693
Attention: Wesley S. Walton
Telephone No.: 312-634-7700
Telecopy No.: 312-634-5000

In the case of Licensee: Peter A. Morton
510 North Robertson Boulevard
Los Angeles, California 90048
Telephone No.: 310-854-3366
Telecopy No.: 310-652-8747

With a copy to: Simpson Thacher & Bartlett
425 Lexington Avenue
New York, New York 10017
Attention: Gary I. Horowitz
Telephone No.: 212-455-8000
Telecopy No.: 212-455-2502

13. RELATIONSHIP OF THE PARTIES.

Licensee shall not use the name or credit of Licensor in any manner whatsoever , nor
incur any obligation in Licensor’s name. Nothing herein shall be construed to constitute the
parties as joint venturers, nor shall any relationship, other than Licensor and Licensee, be
deemed to exist between them. Except as provided in Section 2(b)(iii), nothing herein shall be
construed as constituting Licensee as Licensor’s agent or as authorizing Licensee to incur
financial or other obligations in Licensor’s name without authorization in writing; and it is
specifically understood and agreed that under no circumstances shall any power be granted or
deemed to be granted to Licensee or be deemed to be coupled with an interest. It is specifically
understood that the rights and powers retained by Licensor to supervise or otherwise intervene
in Licensee’s activities, all as provided in this Agreement, are retained solely because of the
necessity of protecting Licensor’s interest in trademarks, properties, and property rights

generally, and specifically to protect the goodwill and good name of Licensor and the Hard
Rock Marks.

14. APPLICABLE LAW AND DISPUTES.

This Agreement shall be governed by the substantive law of the State of New York and,
except as provided in Section 5 hereof, any claims arising out of or relating to this Agreement
shall be prosecuted in the state and federal courts located in New York.

15. SEVERABILITY.

In the event that any term or provision of this Agreement shall for any reason be held
to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect, such invalidity, illegality or
unenforceability shall not affect any other term or provision and this Agreement shall be
interpreted and construed as if such term or provision, to the extent the same is held to be
invalid, illegal or unenforceable, had never been contained herein.

(200D7C58.V1)) -10-

16. SURVIVABILITY.

Any covenant, representation, warranty, term or provision of this Agreement which, in
order to be effective, or by its nature, must survive the termination of this Agreement, shall
survive any such termination.

17. INTEGRATION.

This Agreement together with the Purchase and Sale Agreement represents the entire
understanding between the parties hereto with respect to the licensing of the Hard Rock Hotel
Marks and Hard Rock Casino Marks. This Agreement supersedes all previous representations,
understandings or agreements, oral or written, between the parties with respect to the subject
matter hereof and cannot be modified except by a written instrument signed by the parties
hereto. Any and all rights to the use or exploitation of any Hard Rock Marks granted to
Morton under the 1985 Morton-Tigrett Settlement Agreement, and all agreements and
documents attached thereto, including but not limited to the License Agreements and the 1995
Morton-Licensing Corporation-Rank Settlement Agreement are hereby extinguished and any
rights or obligations thereunder are superseded by this Agreement.

18. BINDING EFFECT.

Each, every and all of the terms hereof shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit

of all parties hereto and their respective heirs, executors, administrators, successors, transferees,
and assigns as the case may be.

19. AUTHORITY OF LICENSOR.

Licensor has all necessary power and authority to execute, deliver and perform this

Agreement and the execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement has been duly
approved and authorized.

20. ENFORCEABILITY.

This Agreement constitutes, the valid and binding agreements of all of the Parties hereto,
enforceable in accordance with its respective terms (subject to general equitable principles and
to bankruptcy, insolvency and similar laws affecting creditors’ rights generally).

21. NONCONTRAVENTION.

Neither the execution and delivery of this Agreement, nor the consummation of any of
the transactions contemplated hereby will constitute a violation of, or result in a cancellation
of, or constitute a default under, any term or provision of any contract, agreement, indenture,

lease, promissory note, license or other commitment to which any of the Morton Parties or the
Rank Parties is a party or by which it is bound.

22. WAIVER OF TERMS.

Any of the terms or conditions of this Agreement may be waived at any time by the

party or parties entitled to the benefit thereof but only by a written notice signed by the party
Or parties waiving such terms or conditions.

(200D7C58.V 1) -l1-

23. AMENDMENT OF AGREEMENT.

This Agreement may be amended, supplemented or interpreted at any time only by
written instrument duly executed by each of the parties hereto.

[Signature Page Follows]

(200D7C58.V1J) -12-


(200D8136)

By their execution below, the parties hereto have agreed to all of the terms and
conditions of this Agreement.

Rank Licensing, Inc.

Title: /Vjee Fresial
Date:  §<=June wh eet

Z 2e SIDEN
Date:7 uns “TF 194


LIST OF DEFINITIONS USED

Athletic Club

Ce ek te ee 4
Beach Club .........0.0.0.020 000000000 ccc ee ee ee nee 4
Casin0 2... 2... ee beeen eee 2, 4
Effective Date... 2... en ne nn ees 8
Greater Houston Area .... 2... 00.0000. cc ee be ete bene 2
Greater Vancouver Area... 2... ee ee eee 2
Hard Rock... 2... ee eee 1, 2, 4, 7, 8
Hard Rock Cafe... 2.0.0 000 00000 nes l
Hard Rock Casino Marks ........020200. 0.00 eee eee ee ee ee ene 1
Hard Rock Facilities... 2... ee eee 2
Hard Rock Hotel Marks... 2.2... .0200000000 0000000 ecb eee ebb ene 1
Hard Rock Marks .......0.0200000 0000000. cee cee eee ee bb beeen 1
Hard Rock Riverboat .......000000 0000000 eee eee eee be ee ees 4
Hotel... 2.2.2... 2002020. 00 00000. 2 ee ee ee bn ee es 1,4
Licensed Products ........0.0.0.0.00 000000 cee ee eee eee eb ee eens 2
Licensed Services... 2.0.00. ee nen 2
Licensee .. 2... bk bn nes 1
Licensor ... 2... 0.00. enn, 1, 2
Morton Territories ... 2.0.00 es 2
Notices... 2... ee ees 9
Riverboat ......0.0.0.0 000000 0c ee en een ne 4
Riverboats .. 2... .0.0.000 0.00000 ce ne bebe 2
Rock Cafe... 2. 2 ee ee ke tne 1
Transaction ... 2.2... 0.0.00. ck ee ee eee 8
Transfer Proposal... 2... es 8

(200D7C58.V1J) ~14-


Exhibit A

Hard Rock Casino
Hard Rock Hotel

(50063CE7)


Exhibit B

Hard Rock Casino

(50063CE7)


EXHIBIT C

LAS VEGAS**

* Replace with Hotel or Casino

**k May be replaced with
"Beach Club" or "Athletic
Club" as designations


EXHIBIT D

Beach Club*

*Or Athletic Club


EXHIBIT E

BEACH CLUB*

* OR “ATHLETIC CLUB"