

Executive Protection Portfolio

PREMIUM BILL

Insured: MEDIDATA SOLUTIONS INC. Date: 07/16/2014

Producer: WILLIAM GALLAGHER ASSOCIATES INSURANCE
BROKERS, IN
470 ATLANTIC AVENUE
BOSTON, MA 02210-0000
Company: Federal Insurance Company
THIS BILLING IS TO BE ATTACHED TO AND FORM A PART OF THE POLICY REFERENCED BELOW.
Product: Executive Protection Portfolio
Policy Number: 8212-1392
Policy Period: June 25, 2014 to June 25, 2015

NOTE: - PLEASE RETURN THIS BILL WITH REMITTANCE AND NOTE HEREON ANY CHANGES. BILL
WILL BE RECEIPTED AND RETURNED TO YOU PROMPTLY UPON REQUEST.

PLEASE REMIT TO PRODUCER INDICATED ABOVE.

Product Effective Date Premium
CRIME 06/25/14 $29,500.00
SPECIAL COVERAGE 06/25/14 $1,900.00

* For Kentucky policies, amount displayed includes tax and collection fees.

TOTAL POLICY PREMIUM $31,400.00

TOTAL INSTALLMENT PREMIUM DUE $31,400.00

WHEN REMITTING PLEASE INDICATE POLICY OR CERTIFICATE NUMBER

Form 14-02-1324i (Rev. 1/99)

FICQ01322


POLICYHOLDER
DISCLOSURE NOTICE OF
TERRORISM INSURANCE COVERAGE

(for policies with no terrorism exclusion or sublimit)
Insuring Company: Federal insurance Company
You are hereby notified that, under the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act (the “Act”), effective
December 26, 2007, this policy makes available to you insurance for losses arising out of
certain acts of terrorism. Terrorism is defined as any act certified by the Secretary of the
Treasury, in concurrence with the Secretary of State and the Attorney General of the
United States, to be an act of terrorism; to be a violent act or an act that is dangerous to
human life, property or infrastructure; to have resulted in damage within the United
States, or outside the United States in the case of an air carrier or vessel or the premises
of a United States Mission; and to have been committed by an individual or individuals as
part of an effort to coerce the civilian population of the United States or to influence the

policy or affect the conduct of the United States Government by coercion.

You should know that the insurance provided by your policy for losses caused by acts of
terrorism is partially reimbursed by the United States under the formula set forth in the
Act. Under this formula, the United States pays 85% of covered terrorism losses that
exceed the statutorily established deductible to be paid by the insurance company

providing the coverage.
However, if aggregate insured losses attributable to terrorist acts certified under the Act
exceed $100 billion ina Program Year (January 1 through December 31), the Treasury

shall not make any payment for any portion of the amount of such losses that exceeds
$100 billion.

10-02-1281 (Ed. 1/2003)

FIC001323


If aggregate insured losses attributable to terrorist acts certified under the Act exceed
$100 billion in a Program Year (January 1 through December 31) and we have met our
insurer deductible under the Act, we shall not be liable for the payment of any portion of
the amount of such losses that exceeds $100 billion, and in such case insured losses up
to that amount are subject to pro rata allocation in accordance with procedures

established by the Secretary of the Treasury.

The portion of your policy's annual premium that is attributable to insurance for such acts

of terrorism is: $ -0-.

If you have any questions about this notice, please contact your agent or broker.

10-02-1281 (Ed. 1/2003)

FICQ01324


IMPORTANT NOTICE TO POLICYHOLDERS

Insuring Company: Federal Insurance Company

All of the members of the Chubb Group of Insurance companies doing business in the United States
(hereinafter “Chubb”) distribute their products through licensed insurance brokers and agents (“producers”). Detailed
information regarding the types of compensation paid by Chubb to producers on US insurance transactions is
available under the Producer Compensation link located at the bottom of the page at www.chubb.com, or by calling 1-
866-588-9478. Additional information may be available from your producer.

Thank you for choosing Chubb.

10-02-1295 (ed. 6/2007)

FICOQ01325


ENDORSEMENT
Coverage Section: Executive Protection Portfolio General Terms and Conditions Section (Fed - NY)
Effective date of
this endorsement: June 25, 2014 Company: Federal Insurance Company

Endorsement No.

To be attached to and
form a part of Policy No. 8212-1392

Issuedto: MEDIDATA SOLUTIONS INC.

NEW YORK NOTICE TO APPLICATION, DECLARATIONS AND POLICY

The Executive Liability and Entity Securities Liability Coverage Section, the Employment Practices Liability
Coverage Section and the Fiduciary Liability Coverage Section provide coverage on a claims-made basis.
This NOTICE is for prospective insureds considering the purchase of these claims-made coverage sections.

PRIOR ACTS: If a claims-made coverage section contains a "retroactive date" or a "prior acts date,” that
coverage section provides no coverage for claims arising out of incidents, occurrences or wrongful acts which
take place prior to that retroactive date or prior acts date.

CLAIMS MADE DURING POLICY PERIOD: Claims-made coverage covers only claims actually made or
incidents reported against the insured while the applicable coverage section remains in effect or claims first
made during an applicable extended reporting period. All coverage under each coverage section ceases
upon the termination date, except for the automatic extended reporting period coverage, unless the insured
purchases optional extended reporting period coverage.

EXTENDED REPORTING PERIOD: The policy provides an automatic extended reporting period of sixty (60)
days from the termination or expiration date of the applicable claims-made coverage section. The insured is
entitled under New York regulation to purchase an optional extended reporting period of one (1) year for the
Fiduciary Liability Coverage Section, the Employment Practices Liability Coverage Section and, as a for-profit
entity, for the Executive Liability and Entity Securities Liability Coverage Section. If an optional extended
reporting period is not purchased and the subsequent policy does not provide full prior acts coverage or is an
occurrence policy, there may be gaps in coverage. Because an unlimited extended reporting period is not
available under the policy, if an optional extended reporting period is purchased, there may be potential gaps
in coverage after the expiration of the optional extended reporting period.

CLAIMS-MADE POLICY MATURITY: During the first several years of the claims-made relationship,

claims-made rates are comparatively lower than occurrence rates. An insured can expect substantial annual
premium increases, independent of overall rate level increases, until the claims-made relationship reaches

matunity.

14-02-8866 (10/2003 Ed.) Page 1

FIC001326


Chubb Group of Insurance Executive Protection Portfolio oM

Companies — General Terms and Conditions Section
15 Mountain View Road

Warren, New Jersey 07059

DECLARATIONS FEDERAL INSURANCE COMPANY
A stock insurance company, incorporated
under the laws of Indiana.

Policy Number: 8212-1392

THE EXECUTIVE LIABILITY AND ENTITY SECURITIES LIABILITY, FIDUCIARY LIABILITY, AND
EMPLOYMENT PRACTICES LIABILITY COVERAGE SECTIONS (WHICHEVER ARE PURCHASED)
PROVIDE CLAIMS MADE COVERAGE, WHICH APPLIES ONLY TO “CLAIMS” FIRST MADE
DURING THE “POLICY PERIOD”, OR AN APPLICABLE EXTENDED REPORTING PERIOD. THE
APPLICABLE LIMIT(S) OF LIABILITY TO PAY “LOSS” WILL BE REDUCED, AND MAY BE
EXHAUSTED, BY THE PAYMENT OF “DEFENSE COSTS” AND “DEFENSE COSTS" WILL BE
APPLIED AGAINST THE RETENTION, UNLESS OTHERWISE SPECIFIED HEREIN. THE
COMPANY WILL NOT BE LIABLE FOR "DEFENSE COSTS" OR THE AMOUNT OF ANY
JUDGMENT OR SETTLEMENT UPON EXHAUSTION OF THE APPLICABLE LIMIT OF LIABILITY.
READ THE ENTIRE POLICY CAREFULLY.

ltem Parent Organization: MEDIDATA SOLUTIONS INC.
1.
Principal Address: 350 HUDSON STREET, 9th Floor
NEW YORK, NY 10014

Item 2. Policy Period: From 12:01 A.M. on June 25, 2014
To 42:01 A.M. on June 25, 2015
Local time at the address shown in Item 1.

Item 3. Coverage Summary
Description:
GENERAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS
CRIME
SPECIAL COVERAGE

Item 4. Termination of
Prior Bonds or Policies: 8212-1392 (Jun 25, 2013 to Jun 25, 2014)

14-02-7302NY (Ed. 1/2004) Page 1 of 8

FIC001327


Chubb Group of Insurance Executive Protection Portfolio ™

Companies : General Terms and Conditions Section
15 Mountain View Road
Warren, New Jersey 07059

In witness whereof, the Company issuing this policy has caused this policy to be signed by its
authorized officers below, but it shall not be valid unless also signed below by a duly authorized

representative of the Company.

FEDERAL INSURANCE COMPANY

Meawresn ih. /

Secretary President
c—_Ov
Date Authorized Representative
14-02-7302NY (Ed. 1/2004) Page 2 of 8

FICQ01328


Executive Protection Portfolio ™
General Terms and Conditions Section

In consideration of payment of the premium and subject to the Declarations and the limitations,
conditions, provisions and other terms of this policy, the Company and the Insureds agree as
follows:

Territory

1. Coverage shall extend anywhere in the world.

Terms and Conditions

2. Except for these General Terms and Conditions or unless stated to the contrary in any
coverage section of this policy, the terms and conditions of each coverage section shall
apply only to that coverage section. If any provision in these General Terms and
Conditions is inconsistent or in conflict with the terms and conditions of any coverage
section, the terms and conditions of such coverage section shall control for purposes of that
coverage section. Any defined term referenced in these General Terms and Conditions but
defined in a coverage section shall, for purposes of coverage under that coverage section,
have the meaning set forth in that coverage section.

Definitions

3. | When used in this policy:
Claim shall have the meaning set forth in the applicable coverage section.
Insured shall have the meaning set forth in the applicable coverage section.

Parent Organization means the organization designated in Item 1 of the Declarations of
these General Terms and Conditions.

Policy Period means the period of time specified in Item 2 of the Declarations of these
General Terms and Conditions, subject to prior termination in accordance with Subsection
11 below. If this period is less than or greater than one year, then the limits of liability
specified in the Declarations for each coverage section shall be the Company's maximum
limit of liability under such coverage section for the entire period.

Limits of Liability and Retentions

4. Unless stated to the contrary in any coverage section, the limits of liability and retentions
shown for each coverage section are separate limits of liability and separate retentions
pertaining to the coverage section for which they are shown. Unless stated to the contrary
in any coverage section of this policy, the payment of a retention under one coverage
section shall not constitute payment of, and shall not reduce, the applicable retention under
any other coverage section.

14-02-7302NY (Ed. 1/2004) Page 3 of 8

FICQ01329


Executive Protection Portfolio ™

General Terms and Conditions Section

Notice

5. Any notice to the Company with respect to any coverage section shall designate the
coverage section under which notice is being given and shall be treated as notice only
under the coverage section(s) so designated.

Notice to the Company of a Claim, or of circumstances which could give rise to a Claim,
shall be given in writing addressed to:

Attn: Claims Department
Chubb Group of Insurance Companies

82 Hopmeadow Street
Simsbury, Connecticut 06070-7683

Notice of a Claim may also be given in writing to a licensed agent of the Company in the
state of New York, wth particulars sufficient to identify the person or entity entitled to
coverage under this policy. Such notice shall be deemed notice to the Company. If notice
of a Claim is given to such agent it shall be effective on the date of receipt by such agent; if
given to the Company it shall be effective on the date of receipt by the Company.

All other notices to the Company shall be given in writing addressed to:

Attn: Underwriting

Chubb Group of Insurance Companies
82 Hopmeadow Street

Simsbury, Connecticut 06070-7683

Any such notice shall be effective on the date of receipt by the Company at such address.

Failure by an insured to give a notice required within a prescribed time will not invalidate
any coverage that would have been available if it is shown that it was not reasonably
possible to give such notice within the prescribed time, and that notice was given as soon
as reasonably possible.

Valuation and Foreign Currency

6. All premiums, limits, retentions, loss and other amounts under this policy are expressed
and payable in the currency of the United States of America. Except as otherwise provided
in any coverage section, if a judgment is rendered, a settlement is denominated or any
element of loss under this policy is stated in a currency other than United States of America
dollars, payment under this policy shall be made in United States of America dollars at the
rate of exchange published in The Wall Street Journal on the date the judgment becomes
final, the amount of the settlement is agreed upon or the element of loss is due,
respectively.

Subrogation

f. In the event of any payment under this policy, the Company shall be subrogated to the
extent of such payment to all the Insured’s rights of recovery, and such Insured shall
execute all papers required and shall do everything necessary to secure and preserve such
nghts, including the execution of such documents necessary to enable the Company
effectively to bring suit or otherwise pursue subrogation rights in the name of the Insured.

14-02-7302NY (Ed. 1/2004) Page 4 of 8

FICQ01330


Executive Protection Portfolio ™
General Terms and Conditions Section

Action Against the Company

8.No action may be taken against the Company unless, as a condition precedent thereto,
there shall have been full compliance with all the terms of this policy. No person or entity
shall have any right under this policy to join the Company as a party to any action against
any Insured to determine such Insured’s liability nor shall the Company be impleaded by
such Insured or legal representatives of such Insured. |f judgment against any Insured
remains unsatisfied thirty (30) days after the serving of notice of entry of judgment upon
such Insured (or his, her or its attorney) and upon the Company, then except during a stay
or limited stay of execution against such Insured on such judgment, an action may be
maintained against the Company under this policy for the amount of such judgment.
Nothing herein is intended, however, nor shall it be construed, to obligate the Company to
make any payment it would not otherwise be obligated to make under the terms,
conditions, limitations and endorsements of this policy, or to pay any Loss in excess of the
then-available applicable Limit of Liability under this policy.

Parent Organization Rights and Obligations

9. By acceptance of this policy, the Parent Organization agrees that it shall be considered
the sole agent of, and shall act on behalf of, each Insured with respect to: the payment of
premiums and the receiving of any return premiums that may become due under this
policy; the negotiation, agreement to and acceptance of endorsements; the giving or
receiving of any notice provided for in this policy (except the giving of notice to apply for an
Extended Reporting Period); the adjustment of loss amounts; and the receipt or
enforcement of payment of loss (and the Parent Organization further agrees that it shall
be responsible for application of any such payment as provided in this policy). Each
Insured agrees that the Parent Organization shall act on its behalf with respect to all such
matters.

Alteration and Assignment

10. Nochange in, modification of, or assignment of interest under this policy shall be effective
except when made by written endorsement to this policy which is signed by an authorized
employee of Chubb & Son, a division of Federal Insurance Company.

Termination of Policy or Coverage Section
11. This policy or any coverage section shall terminate at the earliest of the following times:

(a) if terminated during the first sixty (60) days this policy is in effect, twenty (20)
days after the Company mails or delivers to the Parent Organization written
notice of termination from the Company;

(b) if terminated after this policy has been effect for sixty (60) days, fifteen (15) days
after the Company mails or delivers to the Parent Organization written notice of
termination from the Company for one or more of the following reasons:

(i) nonpayment of premium;

(ii) conviction of a crime arising out of an act increasing the hazard for which
coverage Is provided;

14-02-7302NY (Ed. 1/2004) Page 5 of 8

FIC001331


Executive Protection Portfolio

General Terms and Conditions Section

(c)

(d)

(e)

(f)

(iii) fraud or material misrepresentation in obtaining this policy or in the
presentation of a claim or loss under this policy;

(iv) discovery of an act or omission, or a violation of any policy condition, that
substantially and materially increases the hazard for which coverage is
provided, and which occurred subsequent to the inception of the current
Policy Period;

(v) material physical change in any property for which coverage is provided
or material change in the nature or extent of the risk:

(vi) determination by the superintendent of insurance that the continuation of
this policy would violate, or would place the Company in violation of, any
provision of the New York Insurance Laws: or

(vil) | where the Company has reason to believe, in good faith and with
sufficient cause, that there is a probable risk or danger that the Insured
will destroy, or permit to be destroyed, property for which coverage is
provided for the purpose of collecting insurance proceeds; or

upon the effective date of termination by the Parent Organization; provided that,
the Company receives written notice of termination from the Parent
Organization before such effective date;

at such other time as may be agreed upon by the Company and the Parent
Organization; or

upon expiration of the Policy Period as set forth in Item 2 of the Declarations of
these General Terms and Conditions, or any extension thereof, if either the
Parent Organization or the Company does not renew this policy. If the
Company does not renew this policy, it will provide notice of nonrenewal as set
forth in paragraph (g) of this Subsection 11.

The Company shall refund the uneamed premium computed at customary short
rates if this policy is terminated by the Parent Organization. Under any other
circumstances the refund shall be computed pro rata. Payment or tender of any
unearned premium by the Company shall not be a condition precedent to the
effectiveness of such termination, but such payment shall be made as soon as
practicable.

If the Company (i) non-renews this policy, or (ii) conditions its renewal upon a
change in limits, change in the type of coverage, reduction of coverage,
increased retentions or addition of exclusions, or upon increased premiums in
excess of ten percent (10%) of the expiring rate (exclusive of premiums
attributable to increased exposure subsequent to issuance of this policy or at the
request of the Parent Organization or as a result of experience rating or
retrospective rating), the Company shall provide notice to the Parent
Organization as follows.

(i) The Company will mail or deliver to the Parent Organization between
sixty (60) and one hundred twenty (120) days advance written notice
containing the specific reason or reasons for nonrenewal or conditional
renewal, the amount of any premium increase, the nature of any other
proposed changes and the Parent Organization’s rights, if any, to

14-02-7302NY (Ed. 1/2004) Page 6 of 8

FIC001332


Executive Protection Portfolio ™
General Terms and Conditions Section

coverage and the duration of such coverage. Such notice will not be
provided in the event that the Parent Organization or its agent or broker
of record has mailed or delivered written notice that this policy has been
replaced or is no longer desired. Additionally, if the Company provides
notice of nonrenewal and subsequently extends the Policy Period for
ninety (90) days or less, no additional notice of nonrenewal will be given.

(ii) If before the expiration date in Item 2 of the Declarations of these
General Terms and Conditions the Company provides an incomplete or
late conditional renewal notice, coverage hereunder will remain in effect
on the same terms and conditions and at the lower of the current rates or
the rates for the prior period until sixty (60) days after proper notice is
mailed, unless the Parent Organization elects to cancel sooner. If,
however, the Parent Organization elects to accept the terms, conditions
and rates of the conditional renewal notice and renews this policy on that
basis, then such terms, conditions and rates will govern upon: (A) the
expiration of such sixty (60) day period, if notice of conditional renewal
was provided to the Parent Organization less than thirty (30) days
before the policy expiration date; or (B) the policy expiration date, if
notice of conditional renewal was provided to the Parent Organization
at least thirty (30) days before the policy expiration date.

(iii) If the Policy Period is extended due to late notice of nonrenewal or
conditional renewal, then the applicable aggregate Limit(s) of Liability will
be increased in proportion to the period for which the Policy Period is
extended, provided that if the Parent Organization accepts the terms,
conditions and rates of a conditional renewal notice, such increase will
be inapplicable and, instead, new aggregate limit(s) of liability applicable
to the renewal period shall become effective as of the inception date of
the renewal policy.

(iv) lf the Company does not provide notice of nonrenewal or conditional
renewal before the policy expiration date set forth in Item 2 of the
Declarations of these General Terms and Conditions, then the Parent
Organization may purchase coverage on the same terms and conditions
as this policy for another policy year at the lower of the premium rates for
such new policy year or for the immediately preceding policy year.

(h) The Company shall mail or deliver a copy of any notice of nonrenewal or
termination of this policy by the Company to the agent or broker of record, if any,
at its last address known to the Company.

(i) Any notice of nonrenewal or termination of this policy by the Company shall state the
specific reason(s) for, and the effective date of, such nonrenewal or termination. Termination of
Prior Bonds or Policies

12. Any bonds or policies issued by the Company or its affiliates and specified in Item 4 of the
Declarations of these General Terms and Conditions shall terminate, if not already
terminated, as of the inception of this policy.

14-02-7302NY (Ed. 1/2004) Page 7 of 8

FICQ01333


Executive Protection Portfolio ™
General Terms and Conditions Section

Bankruptcy

13. Bankruptcy or insolvency of any Insured or any Insured’s estate shall not relieve the
Company of its obligations nor deprive the Company of its rights or defenses under this

policy.

Headings

14. The descriptions in the headings and sub-headings of this policy are solely for
convenience, and form no part of the terms and conditions of coverage.

14-02-7302NY (Ed. 1/2004) Page 8 of 8

FIC001334


Schedule of Forms

To be attached to and form part of Company: Federal Insurance Company
Policy No. 8212-1392

Issued to: MEDIDATA SOLUTIONS INC.

Executive Protection Portfolio General Terms and Conditions Section (Fed - NY)
14-02-14839 (6/12 ed.)

14-02-9228 (2/10 ed.)

Executive Protection Portfolio Crime Coverage Section (Fed - NY)
14-02-10894 (5/05 ed.)

14-02-19672 (3/13 ed.)

14-02-8592 (7/05 ed.)

14-02-8754 (8/03 ed.)

14-02-8907 (10/04 ed.)

14-02-8923A (4/07 ed.)

14-02-8925 (11/03 ed.)

14-02-8926 (11/03 ed.)

14-02-8927 (11/03 ed.)

14-02-8928 (11/03 ed.)

14-02-8931A (4/08 ed.)

14-02-8932 (11/03 ed.)

14-02-8933 (11/03 ed.)

14-02-9146 (2/04 ed.)

14-02-9261 (4/04 ed.)

14-02-9262 (4/04 ed.)

Executive Protection Portfolio Kidnap/Ransom & Extortion Coverage Section (Fed - NY)
14-02-11774 (2/13 ed.)

14-02-11797NY (3/08 ed.)

14-02-12302 (8/06 ed.)

14-02-15293 (8/09 ed.)

14-02-16655 (12/09 ed.)

Form 14-02-0854 (Ed. 04-01)
FIC001335


Schedule of Forms

To be attached to and form part of Company: Federal Insurance Company
Policy No. 8212-1392

Issued to: MEDIDATA SOLUTIONS INC.

14-02-18396 (10/13 ed.)
14-02-8014 (4/03 ed.)
14-02-8753 (8/03 ed.)
14-02-8806A (2/05 ed.)
14-02-8900 (2/08 ed.)

Form 14-02-0854 (Ed. 04-01)
F1C001336


ENDORSEMENT/RIDER

Coverage Section: Executive Protection Portfolio General Terms and Conditions Section (Fed - NY)

Effective date of
this endorsement/rider: June 25, 2014 Federal Insurance Company

Endorsement/Rider No. 1

To be attached to and .
form a part of Policy No. 8212-1392

Issued to: MEDIDATA SOLUTIONS INC.

NEW YORK AMENDATORY ENDORSEMENT - LATE NOTICE

In consideration of the premium charged, it is agreed that:

(1)

(2)

(3)

(4)

Subject to the terms and conditions of this insurance, failure to provide notice ofa Claim pursuant to the
reporting and/or notice provisions of this policy shall not invalidate any coverage that would have
otherwise been available unless the failure to provide such timely notice has prejudiced the Company;
except as provided in paragraph (2) below.

Failure to provide notice of a Claim pursuant to the reporting and/or notice provisions of this policy shall
not invalidate any coverage if it is shown that it was not reasonably possible to give such notice within the
prescribed time, and that such notice was given as soon as reasonably possible thereafter.

The burden of proving prejudice for failure to provide timely notice shall be on:

(a) the Company if the notice was provided within two (2) years of the time required under this policy;
or

(b) the Insured, injured person, or claimant if the notice was provided more than two (2) years after
the time required under this policy.

Notwithstanding the above paragraph, an irrebuttable presumption of prejudice shall apply if, prior to
notice:

(a) the Insured’s liability has been determined by a court of competent jurisdiction or by binding
arbitration; or

(b) the Insured has entered into any settlement or other compromise.
Except as expressly set forth in this endorsement, nothing herein shall be construed:

(a) to amend provisions in the policy stating that claims shall be made during the Policy Period, any
renewal thereof, or any extended reporting penod; or

(b) to duplicate coverage under multiple policy periods.

With respect to a Claim for death or personal injury, as that termis defined by the New York
Insurance Law, if the Company disclaims liability or denies coverage based upon the failure to
provide timely notice, then, notwithstanding any other prowsion in this policy, the injured person
or other claimant may maintain an action directly against the Company. In such an action, the

14-02-14839 (06/2012) Page 1

FIC001337/


sole question will be the Company’s disclaimer or denial based on the failure to prowde timely
notice, unless within sixty (60) days of such disclaimer or denial, the Company or the Insured:

(a) initiate an action to declare the rights of the parties under this policy; and

(b) name the Insured as a party to such action.

The title and any headings in this endorsement/rider are solely for convenience and form no part of the terms and
conditions of coverage.

All other terms, conditions and limitations of this Policy shall remain unchanged.

QO MA

Authorized Representative

14-02-14839 (06/2012) Page 2
F|C001338


ENDORSEMENT/RIDER
Coverage Section: Executive Protection Portfolio General Terms and Conditions Section (Fed - NY)

Effective date of
this endorsement/rider: June 25, 2014 Federal Insurance Company

Endorsement/Rider No. 2
To be attached to and
form a part of Policy No. 8212-1392

Issued to: MEDIDATA SOLUTIONS INC.

COMPLIANCE WITH APPLICABLE TRADE SANCTION LAWS

It is agreed that this insurance does not apply to the extent that trade or economic sanctions or other similar laws or
regulations prohibit the coverage provided by this insurance.

The title and any headings in this endorsement/rider are solely for convenience and form no part of the terms and
conditions of coverage.

All other terms, conditions and limitations of this Policy shall remain unchanged.

QO Wa

Authorized Representative

14-02-9228 (2/2010) Page 1

FIC001339


DECLARATIONS

Chubb Group of Insurance Executive Protection Portfolio

Companies
15 Mountain View Road
Warren, New Jersey 07059

SM

Crime Coverage Section

FEDERAL INSURANCE COMPANY

A stock insurance company, incorporated
under the laws of Indiana.

READ THE ENTIRE POLICY CAREFULLY.

Item 1. Parent Organization:
MEDIDATA SOLUTIONS INC.
350 HUDSON STREET, 9th Floor
NEW YORK, NY 10014

Item 2. Insuring Clauses:

(A)
(B)
(C)
(D)
(E)
(F)
(G)

(H)
(I)
(J)

Insuring Clause 1 - Employee Theft Coverage:
Insuring Clause 2 - Premises Coverage:
Insuring Clause 3 - In Transit Coverage:
Insuring Clause 4 - Forgery Coverage:

Insuring Clause 5 - Computer Fraud Coverage:

Insuring Clause 6 - Funds Transfer Fraud Coverage:

Insuring Clause 7 - Money Orders And Counterfeit
Fraud Coverage:

Insuring Clause 8 - Credit Card Fraud Coverage:
Insuring Clause 9 - Client Coverage:

Insuring Clause 10 - Expense Coverage:

item 3. Retention:

ltem 4.
Organization
Medidate Solutions, Inc., and its subsidiaries
14-02-7307NY (Ed. 1/2004) Page 1 of 17

FICQ01340

Limits of Liability:
$5,000,000.00
$5,000,000.00
$5,000,000.00
$5,000,000.00
$5,000,000.00

$5,000,000.00

$5,000,000.00
$5,000,000.00
$5,000,000.00

$250,000.00

$50,000.00


Executive Protection Portfolio
Crime Coverage Section

In consideration of payment of the premium and subject to the Declarations, the General Terms
and Conditions, and the limitations, conditions, provisions and other terms of this coverage
section, the Company and the Insureds agree as follows:

Insuring Clauses
Employee Theft Coverage Insuring Clause 1
1. The Company shall pay the Parent Organization for direct loss of Money, Securities or

Property sustained by an Insured resulting from Theft or Forgery committed by an
Employee acting alone or in collusion with others.

Premises Coverage Insuring Clause 2

2. The Company shall pay the Parent Organization for direct loss sustained by an
Organization resulting from:

(a) the unlawful taking of Money or Securities committed by a Third Party; or
(b) the actual destruction or disappearance of Money or Securities,

within or from the Premises or Banking Premises.

Coverage under this Insuring Clause shall also include:

(i) direct loss of or damage to Property which results from Robbery or attempted
Robbery within the Premises;

(ii) direct loss of or damage to Property contained within any locked vault or safe which
results from Safe Burglary or attempted Safe Burglary within the Premises;

(iii) | damage to a locked safe, cash drawer, cash box or cash register within the
Premises by felonious entry or attempted felonious entry or loss by felonious
abstraction of such container from within the Premises; and

(iv) damage to the Premises which results from Robbery or Safe Burglary,

committed by a Third Party.

In Transit Coverage Insuring Clause 3

3. The Company shall pay the Parent Organization for direct loss sustained by an
Organization resulting from:

(a) the unlawful taking of Money or Securities committed by a Third Party; or
(b) the actual destruction or disappearance of Money or Securities,

while In Transit or while temporarily within the home of an Employee or an
Organization.

14-02-7307NY (Ed. 1/2004) Page 2 of 17

FICQ01341


Executive Protection Portfolio ™
Crime Coverage Section

Coverage under this Insuring Clause shall also include:

(i) direct loss of or damage to Property which results from Robbery while In
Transit; and

(ii) direct loss which results from the unlawful taking of Property temporarily within
the home of an Employee or an Organization,

committed by a Third Party.

Forgery Coverage Insuring Clause 4

4. The Company shall pay the Parent Organization for direct loss sustained by an
Organization resulting from Forgery or alteration of a Financial Instrument committed by
a Third Party, including:

(a) any check or draft made or drawn in the name of such Organization payable to a
fictitious payee and endorsed in the name of such fictitious payee;

(b) any check or draft procured in a face to face transaction with such Organization or
with one acting as the agent of such Organization by a Third Party impersonating
another and made or drawn payable to the one impersonated and endorsed by a
Third Party other than such one impersonated: and

(c) any payroll check, payroll draft or payroll order made or drawn by such Organization
payable to bearer as well as to a named payee and endorsed by a Third Party other
than such named payee without the authority of such named payee.

Computer Fraud Coverage Insuring Clause 5

5. The Company shall pay the Parent Organization for direct loss of Money, Securities or
Property sustained by an Organization resulting from Computer Fraud committed by a
Third Party.

Funds Transfer Fraud Coverage Insuring Clause 6

6. | The Company shall pay the Parent Organization for direct loss of Money or Securities
sustained by an Organization resulting from Funds Transfer Fraud committed by a Third

Party.

Money Orders And Counterfeit Currency Fraud Coverage Insuring Clause 7

f, The Company shall pay the Parent Organization for direct loss sustained by an
Organization resulting from Money Orders And Counterfeit Currency Fraud committed
by a Third Party.

14-02-7307NY (Ed. 1/2004) Page 3 of 17

FIC001342


Executive Protection Portfolio *”
Crime Coverage Section

Credit Card Fraud Coverage Insuring Clause 8

8.

The Company shall pay the Parent Organization for direct loss sustained by an
Organization resulting from Credit Card Fraud committed by a Third Party.

Client Coverage Insuring Clause 9

9.

The Company shall pay the Parent Organization for direct loss of Money, Securities or
Property sustained by a Client resulting from Theft or Forgery committed by an
Employee not in collusion with such Client’s employees.

Expense Coverage Insuring Clause 10

10.

The Company shall pay the Parent Organization for:

(a) Investigative Expenses resulting from any loss covered under Insuring Clauses 1
through 9 incurred by an Organization, but only if such covered loss under Insuring
Clauses 1 through 9 is in excess of the Retention applicable to such covered loss,

(b) Computer Violation Expenses resulting from any loss covered under Insuring
Clause 1, 5 or 9 incurred by an Organization, but only if such covered loss under
Insuring Clause 1, 5 or 9 is in excess of the Retention applicable to such covered
loss.

No Retention shall apply to Investigative Expenses or Computer Violation Expenses
covered under Insuring Clause 10.

Definitions

11.

When used in this coverage section:

Banking Premises means the interior portion of a building occupied by, or the night
depository chute or safe maintained by, any bank, trust company or similar financial
institution.

Client means a customer of an Organization to whom such Organization provides goods
or services under written contract or for a fee.

Computer Fraud means the unlawful taking or the fraudulently induced transfer of Money,
Securities or Property resulting from a Computer Violation.

Computer System means a computer and all input, output, processing, storage, off-line
media library and communication facilities which are connected to such computer, provided
that such computer and facilities are owned and operated or leased and operated by an
Organization.

Computer Violation means the fraudulent:

(a) entry of Data into or deletion of Data from a Computer System;

(b) change to Data elements or program logic of a Computer System, which is kept in
machine readable format; or

44-02-7307NY (Ed. 1/2004) Page 4 of 17

FICQ01343


Executive Protection Portfolio ™
Crime Coverage Section

(c) introduction of instructions, programmatic or otherwise, which propagate themselves
through a Computer System,

directed against an Organization.

Computer Violation Expenses means reasonable expenses, other than an
Organization’s internal corporate costs (such as Salary), incurred by an Organization,
with the Company’s prior written consent, to reproduce or duplicate damaged or destroyed
Data or computer programs. If such Data or computer programs cannot be duplicated from
other Data or computer programs, then Computer Violation Expenses shall also include
reasonable costs incurred for computer time, computer programmers, technical experts or
consultants to restore such Data or computer programs to substantially the same level or
operational capability existing immediately before the covered loss. Computer Violation
Expenses shall not include expenses incurred by any Client.

Credit Card Fraud means the Forgery or alteration of, on or in any written instrument
required in connection with any credit card issued to an Organization or, at the request of
an Organization, to an Employee.

Data means a representation of information, knowledge, facts, concepts or instructions
which are processed and stored ina Computer System.

Discovery or Discovered means an Executive or Insurance Representative has
become aware of facts which would cause a reasonable person to assume that a loss of a
type covered by this coverage section has occurred or acts have taken place that may
subsequently result in a loss of a type covered by this coverage section. This includes
loss:

(a) sustained prior to the inception date of any Coverage under this coverage section;

(b) which is within the applicable Retention as set forth in Item 3 of the Declarations for
this coverage section; or

(c) for which the exact amount or details are unknown.

Discovery or Discovered shall not include knowledge acquired by an Executive or

Insurance Representative acting alone in a Theft or Forgery, or acting in collusion with

any Employee in a Theft or Forgery.

Employee means any:

(a) natural person while in the regular service of an Organization in the ordinary course
of such Organization’s business, whom such Organization compensates by Salary
and has the right to govern and direct in the performance of such service, including
any part-time, seasonal, leased or temporary employee;

(b) _ natural person volunteer while in the regular service of an Organization in the
ordinary course of such Organization’s business, whom such Organization has the
right to govern and direct in the performance of such service:

(Cc) Executive while performing acts within the scope of the usual duties of an
Employee; or

14-02-7307NY (Ed. 1/2004) Page 5 of 17

FIC001344


Executive Protection Portfolio *”
Crime Coverage Section

(d) natural person fiduciary, trustee, administrator or other plan official, while in the
regular service of an ERISA Plan, who is required to be bonded by an Organization
in connection with such ERISA Plan by Title 1 of the Employee Retirement Income
Security Act of 1974, as amended.

ERISA Plan means any Employee Benefit Plan, Pension Benefit Plan, or Welfare Benefit
Plan, defined and required to be bonded under Title 1 of the Employee Retirement Income
Security Act of 1974, as amended, which is operated solely by an Organization or jointly
by an Organization and a labor organization for the benefit of Employees and which
existed on or before the inception of this coverage section or which is created or acquired
after the inception of this coverage section.

Executive means any natural person specified below:

(a) duly elected or appointed director, officer, member of the Board of Managers or
management committee member of an Organization chartered in the United States
of Amenca;

(b) in-house general counsel of an Organization chartered in the United States of
~ America;

(c) equivalent positions of (a) or (b) above in an Organization chartered in any other
jurisdiction anywhere in the world; or

(d) apartner of an Organization while engaged in the regular service of such
Organization.

Financial Instrument means a check, draft or similar written promise, order or direction to
pay a sum certain in Money that is made, drawn by or drawn upon an Organization or
made or drawn by anyone acting as an Organization’s agent, or that is purported to have
been so made or drawn.

Forgery means the signing of the name of another natural person or organization, with the
intent to deceive, but does not mean a signature that includes, in whole or in part, one’s
own name, with or without authority, in any capacity for any purpose. Mechanically or
electronically produced or reproduced signatures shall be treated the same as hand-written
signatures.

Funds Transfer Fraud means fraudulent electronic, telegraphic, cable, teletype, facsimile,
telephone or written instructions (other than Forgery), purportedly issued by an
Organization, and issued to a financial institution directing such institution to transfer, pay
or deliver Money or Securities from any account maintained by such Organization at
such institution, without such Organization’s knowledge or consent.

Insurance Representative means any Employee, including a risk manager, designated to
represent an Insured for the purpose of effecting and maintaining insurance.

Insured means any Organization and, for the purposes of Insuring Clause 1, any ERISA
Plan or Non-ERISA Pian.

In Transit means being conveyed outside the Premises, from one person or place to
another, by an Organization within the custody of:

14-02-7307NY (Ed. 1/2004) Page 6 of 17

FICQ01345


Executive Protection Portfolio ™

Crime Coverage Section

(a) an Employee; or

(b) a person duly authorized by such Organization to have custody of such Money,
Securities or Property.

Such conveyance begins immediately upon receipt of Money, Securities or Property by
the person(s) described in (a) or (b) above from such Organization, and ceases
immediately upon delivery to the designated recipient or its agent.

Investigative Expenses means reasonable expenses, other than an Organization’s
internal corporate costs (such as Salary), incurred by an Organization, with the
Company's prior written consent, to establish the existence and amount of a covered loss.
Investigative Expenses shall not include expenses incurred by any Client.

Money means currency, coin, bank notes and bullion.

Money Orders And Counterfeit Currency Fraud means the good faith acceptance by an
Organization:

(a) in exchange for merchandise, Money or services, of any post office or express money
order, issued or purporting to have been issued by any post office or express
company, if such money order is not paid upon presentation; or

(b) in the regular course of business, of counterfeit United States of America or
Canadian paper currency.

Non-ERISA Plan means any employee benefit plan not subject to Title 1 of the Employee
Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, which is operated solely by an
Organization or jointly by an Organization and a labor organization for the benefit of
Employees and which existed on or before the inception of this coverage section or which
is created or acquired after the inception of this coverage section.

Organization means any organization designated in Item 4 of the Declarations for this
coverage section.

Premises means the interior portion of a building occupied by an Organization in
conducting its business.

Property means tangible property other than Money or Securities.

Robbery means the unlawful taking of Money, Securities or Property from the custody of
an Employee, or other person (except a person acting as a watchman, porter or janitor)
duly authorized by an Organization to have custody of such Money, Securities or
Property, by violence or threat of violence, committed in the presence and cognizance of
such Employee or other person.

Safe Burglary means the unlawful taking of Money, Securities or Property, by forcible or
violent entry evidenced by visible marks, from a locked vault or safe located within the
Premises.

Salary means compensation an Organization pays an Employee, including bonus,
commission, incentive payments, and the cost of health, welfare and pension benefits.

14-02-7307NY (Ed. 1/2004) Page 7 of 17

FICQ01346


Executive Protection Portfolio *”
Crime Coverage Section

Securities means negotiable and nor-negotiable instruments or contracts representing
either Money or Property.

Subsidiary, either in the singular or plural, means any organization while more than fifty
percent (50%) of the outstanding securities or voting rights representing the present right to
vote for election of or to appoint directors, members of the Board of Managers, or

management committee members of such organization are owned or controlled, directly or
indirectly, in any combination, by one or more Organizations.

Theft means the unlawful taking of Money, Securities or Property to the deprivation of:
(a) an Insured, solely for the purposes of Insuring Clause 1; or

(b) a Client, solely for the purposes of Insuring Clause 9.

Third Party means a natural person other than:

(a) an Employee; or

(b) anatural person acting in collusion with an Employee.

Exclusions

12.

No coverage will be available under this coverage section for:

(a) loss resulting directly or indirectly from any authorized or unauthorized trading of
Money, Securities or Property, whether or not in the name of an Insured and
whether or not in a genuine or fictitious account; provided that this Exclusion 12(a)
shall not apply to otherwise covered loss under Insuring Clause 1 which results in
improper financial gain to an Employee (such loss shall mean only the amount of
improper financial gain to such Employee, and shall not include Salary,
commissions, fees or other compensation, including but not limited to promotions and
raises associated with employment, paid by the Insured to such Employee);

(b) loss of any trade secret, confidential processing method or other confidential
information of any kind;

(c) loss due to Theft or Forgery committed by a partner of an Organization, whether
acting alone or in collusion with others; provided that, if such Theft or Forgery would
otherwise be covered under Insuring Clause 1 or 9, this Exclusion 12(c) shall not
apply to the extent coverage under this coverage section is excess of the amount of
such partner's percentage ownership of such Organization, on the day immediately
preceding the date of Discovery, multiplied by such Organization’s total assets as
reflected in such Organization’s most recent audited financial statements;

(d) loss or damage due to declared or undeclared war, civil war, insurrection, rebellion,
revolution, military, naval or usurped power, governmental intervention, expropriation
or nationalization, or any act or condition incident to any of the foregoing;

(e) loss or damage due to nuclear reaction, nuclear radiation or radioactive
contamination, or any act or condition incident to any of the foregoing,

(f) loss of income not realized as the result of a covered loss;

44-02-7307NY (Ed. 1/2004) Page 8 of 17

FIC001347


Executive Protection Portfolio ™
Crime Coverage Section

(9) — indirect or consequential loss or damage of any kind; provided that this Exclusion
12(g) shall not apply to otherwise covered Investigative Expenses and Computer
Violation Expenses under Insuring Clause 10;

(h) fees, costs or expenses incurred or paid:

(i) | as a result of the reconstitution of Data if an Organization knowingly used
illegal copies of programs;

(ii) to render the Data usable by replacement processing equipment;

(ili) to design, update or improve software or programs or to perfect their operation
or performance; or

(iv) as a result of an alteration in Data held on magnetic media due to the effect of
magnetic fields, their incorrect use or the obsolescence of the computer or its
facilities;

(i) fees, costs or expenses incurred or paid in defending or prosecuting any legal
proceeding or claim; provided that this Exclusion 12(i) shall not apply to the coverage
provided under Subsection 22 Legal Expenses Extension:

(i) loss or damage due to fire; provided that this Exclusion 12(j) shall not apply
to:

(i) loss of Money or Securities; or

(ii) | damage to any safe or vault caused by the application of fire thereto for the
purposes of Safe Burglary;

(k) loss due to an Insured knowingly having given or surrendered Money,
Securities or Property in any exchange or purchase with a Third Party;
provided that this Exclusion 12(k) shall not apply to otherwise covered loss
under Insuring Clause 7 or otherwise covered loss of Property under
Insuring Clause 5;

(I) loss sustained by one Insured to the advantage of any other Insured;

(m) loss of or damage to Money, Securities or Property while in the custody of
any bank, trust company, similar recognized place of safe deposit, armored
motor vehicle company or any person who is duly authorized by an
Organization to have custody of such Money, Securities or Property;
provided that this Exclusion 12(m) shall not apply to the extent that coverage
under this coverage section is excess of the amount recovered or received
by such Organization under:

(i) | such Organization’s contract, if any, with, or insurance carried by, any
of the foregoing; or

(ii) | any other insurance or indemnity in force which would cover the loss in whole
or in part; or

14-02-7307NY (Ed. 1/2004) Page 9 of 17

FIC001348


13.

14.

15.

16.

17

18.

Executive Protection Portfolio
Crime Coverage Section

(n} loss or damage due to Theft, Forgery, Computer Fraud, Funds Transfer Fraud,
Money Orders And Counterfeit Currency Fraud, Credit Card Fraud or other
fraudulent, dishonest or criminal act (other than Robbery or Safe Burglary)
committed by any authorized representative of an Insured, whether acting alone or in
collusion with others; provided that this Exclusion 12(n) shall not apply to otherwise
covered loss under Insuring Clause 1 or 9 resulting from Theft or Forgery committed
by an Employee acting in collusion with such authorized representative.

No coverage will be available under Insuring Clause 1 or 9 for:

(a) loss caused by any agent, broker, factor, commission merchant, consignee,
contractor, independent contractor, subcontractor or other similar
representative; or

(b) loss caused by an Employee which is sustained by an Insured:

(i) after an Executive or Insurance Representative becomes aware ofa
Theft, Forgery or other fraudulent, dishonest or criminal act committed
by such Employee while employed with or in the service of an
Insured;

(ii) | after an Executive or Insurance Representative becomes aware ofa
Theft, Forgery or other fraudulent, dishonest or criminal act, involving
Money, Securities or other property valued at twenty-five thousand
dollars ($25,000) or more, committed by such Employee prior to
employment or service with an Insured; or

(iii) | more than sixty (60) days following the termination of such Employee.
No coverage will be available under Insuring Clause 2 or 3 for:

(a) loss or damage due to Forgery, Computer Fraud, Funds Transfer Fraud,
Money Orders And Counterfeit Currency Fraud or Credit Card Fraud; or

(b) loss of or damage to Money, Securities or Property while in the mail or in the
custody of a carrier for hire other than an armored motor vehicle company.

No coverage will be available under Insuring Clause 2, 3, 5, or 6 for loss or damage as a
result of a kidnap, ransom or other extortion payment (as distinct from Robbery)
surrendered to any person as a result of a threat to do bodily harm to any person or a
threat to do damage to any property.

No coverage will be available under Insuring Clause 4 for loss due to Forgery or
alteration of any registered or coupon obligation issued or purported to have been
issued by an Insured, or any coupon whether attached or detached.

No coverage will be available under Insuring Clause 5 for loss caused by a Third
Party which is sustained by an Organization sixty (60) days or more after an
Organization becomes aware of a Computer Fraud or other fraudulent, dishonest
or criminal act committed by such Third Party.

No coverage will be available under Insuring Clause 8 for loss caused by any forgery or
alteration of, on or in any written instrument; provided that this Exclusion 18 shall not apply
if:

14-02-7307NY (Ed. 1/2004) Page 10 of 17

FICQ01349


Executive Protection Portfolio ™
Crime Coverage Section

(a) the provisions, conditions and other terms under which the involved credit
card was issued were fully complied with; and

(b) an Organization is legally liable to the issuer of such credit card for such loss.
19. No coverage will be available under this coverage section for:

(a) loss unless sustained by an Insured prior to the termination of this coverage
section as to such Insured, and Discovered and written notice thereof is
given to the Company within sixty (60) days following such termination;

(b) loss unless sustained prior to the termination of any Insuring Clause or any
particular coverage offered under any Insuring Clause, and Discovered and
written notice thereof is given to the Company within sixty (60) days following
such termination; or

(c) loss unless sustained prior to the termination of this coverage section in its
entirety, and Discovered and written notice thereof is given to the Company
within sixty (60) days following such termination;

provided that in no event will coverage be available under this coverage section for such
loss if such loss is covered under any renewal or replacement of this coverage section or
any Insuring Clause or any particular coverage offered under any Insuring Clause.

Ownership

20. Solely for the purposes of Insuring Clauses 1 through 8, the Company's liability
under this coverage section will apply only to Money, Securities or Property
owned by the Organization or for which the Organization is legally liable, or held
by the Organization in any capacity whether or not the Organization is liable;
provided that:

(a) the Company's liability will not apply to damage to the Premises unless the
Organization is the owner of such Premises or is legally liable for such damage; or

(b) — with respect to Insuring Clause 1, the Company's liability will not apply to Money,
Securities or Property of a Client.

Solely for the purposes of Insuring Clause 9, the Company's liability under this coverage
section will apply only to Money, Securities or Property owned by a Client, which is held
by the Organization in any capacity or for which the Organization is legally liable.

ERISA Plan
21. Solely with respect to loss sustained by an ERISA Plan, payment by the Company for
covered loss to the Parent Organization shall be held by such Parent Organization for
the use and benefit of the ERISA Plan sustaining such loss.
Solely with respect to loss sustained by an ERISA Plan:

(a) Insuring Clause 1 is amended to read in its entirety as follows:

14-02-7307NY (Ed. 1/2004) Page 11 of 17

FICOQ01350


Executive Protection Portfolio ™
Crime Coverage Section

The Company shall pay the Parent Organization for direct loss of Money,
Securities or Property sustained by an ERISA Plan resulting from a fraudulent or
dishonest act committed by an Employee acting alone or in collusion with others.

(b) The words “sixty (60) days” are deleted from Exclusion 19 of this coverage section,
wherever they appear in such Exclusion, and the words ‘one (1) year’ are substituted
in place thereof.

No Retention shall apply to loss sustained by an ERISA Plan covered under this coverage
section.

Legal Expenses Extension

22.

In addition to the Limits of Liability set forth in the Declarations for this coverage section,
the Company shall pay the Parent Organization for:

(a) As aresult of loss covered under Insuring Clause 4, reasonable court costs and
attorneys’ fees incurred and paid, with the Company’s prior written consent, in
defending an Organization or an Organization’s bank in any legal proceeding
brought against it to enforce payment of a Financial Instrument,

(b) Asa result of loss covered under Insuring Clause 8, reasonable court costs and
attorneys’ fees incurred and paid, with the Company’s prior written consent, in
defending an Organization in any legal proceeding brought against it to enforce
payment of a written instrument, required in connection with any credit card.

Changes in Exposure

23.

If before or during the Policy Period any Organization:

(a) acquires securities or voting rights in another organization or creates another
organization, which as a result of such acquisition or creation becomes a Subsidiary;
or

(b) acquires another organization by merger into or consolidation with such
Organization such that such Organization is the surviving entity,

then coverage shall be provided for such acquired organization or new Subsidiary after the

effective date of such acquisition or creation.

if the total revenues of any such acquired organization or new Subsidiary exceed ten
percent (10%) of the total revenues of the Parent Organization (as reflected in the most
recent audited consolidated financial statements of such organization and the Parent
Organization, respectively, as of the date of such acquisition or creation), the Parent
Organization shall give written notice of such acquisition or creation to the Company as
soon as practicable, but in no event later than sixty (60) days after the date of such
acquisition or creation, together with such information as the Company in its sole discretion
may require and shall pay any reasonable additional premium required by the Company. If
the Parent Organization fails to give such notice within the time specified in the preceding
sentence, or fails to pay the additional premium required by the Company, coverage for
such acquired organization or new Subsidiary shall be null and void from the date of such
acquisition or creation. Coverage for such acquired organization or new Subsidiary shall

14-02-7307NY (Ed. 1/2004) Page 12 of 17

FICQ01351


Executive Protection Portfolio ™
Crime Coverage Section

be subject to such additional or different limitations, conditions, provisions or other terms as
the Company in its sole discretion may require.

Liability For Prior Losses

24. In the event of loss sustained prior to the inception date of this coverage section, prior to
the effective date of coverage for any additional insureds or prior to the effective date of
any coverage added by endorsement, which would otherwise be covered under this
coverage section, such prior loss shall be afforded coverage subject to the following:

(a) an Insured or some predecessor in interest of such Insured carried a prior bond or
policy, which at the time such prior loss was sustained, afforded some or all of the
coverage of an Insuring Clause under this coverage section applicable to such prior
loss;

(b) such coverage continued without interruption from the time such prior loss was
sustained until the inception date or effective date(s) as described above:

(c) such prior loss was first Discovered by an Insured after the time allowed for
discovery under the last such policy; and

(d) some or all of the coverage of an Insuring Clause under this coverage section would
be applicable to such prior loss.

If such prior bond or policy carried by the Insured or predecessor in interest of such
Insured was issued by the Company or its affiliates, such prior bond or policy shall
terminate as of the inception of this coverage section and such prior bond or policy shall not
cover any loss not discovered and noticed to the Company prior to the inception of this
coverage section.

The Insured shall neither be entitled to a separate recovery of the limits of each policy in
force at the time any part of the prior loss was sustained, nor shall the Insured be entitled
to recover the sum of the limits of liability of any such policies. The Company’s maximum
liability for such prior loss shall not exceed the lesser of the limit of liability of the policy in
force at the time such prior loss was sustained, or the applicable Limit of Liability as set
forth in the Declarations for this coverage section.

Limits of Liability and Retention

25. Subject to Subsection 24 Liability for Prior Losses, the Company shall only be liable for loss
sustained by an Insured during the Policy Period.

The Company’s maximum liability for each loss shall not exceed the Limit of Liability
applicable to such loss, as set forth in Item 2 of the Declarations for this coverage section,
regardless of the number of Insureds sustaining such loss.

The Company’s maximum liability shall not exceed the Limit of Liability:

14-02-7307NY (Ed. 1/2004) Page 13 of 17

FICQ01352


Executive Protection Portfolio SM
Crime Coverage Section

(a) Applicable to Insuring Clause 1 as set forth in Item 2(A) of the Declarations for this
coverage section: for all loss resulting from any act or any series of acts committed
by the same Employee or in which the same Employee is concemed or implicated,
regardless of whether such act or series of acts was committed before or during the
Policy Period;

(b) Applicable to Insuring Clause 2 as set forth in Item 2(B) of the Declarations for this
coverage section: for all loss resulting from any act, casualty or event, any series of
related acts, casualties or events, or any act or series of acts committed by the same
Third Party or in which the same Third Party is concemed or implicated, regardless
of whether such act, casualty or event or series of acts, casualties or events was
committed or occurred before or during the Policy Period;

(c) Applicable to Insuring Clause 3 as set forth in Item 2(C) of the Declarations for this
coverage section: for all loss resulting from any act, casualty or event, any series of
related acts, casualties or events, or any act or series of acts committed by the same
Third Party or in which the same Third Party is concemed or implicated, regardless
of whether such act, casualty or event or series of acts, casualties or events was
committed or occurred before or during the Policy Period;

(d) Applicable to Insuring Clause 4 as set forth in Item 2(D) of the Declarations for this
coverage section: for all loss resulting from any act or series of acts committed by the
same Third Party or in which the same Third Party is concemed or implicated,
regardless of whether such act or series of acts was committed before or during the
Policy Period;

(e) Applicable to Insuring Clause 5 as set forth in Item 2(E) of the Declarations for this
coverage section: for all loss resulting from any act, casualty or event, any series of
related acts, casualties or events, or any act or series of acts committed by the same
Third Party or in which the same Third Party is concerned or implicated, regardless
of whether such act, casualty or event or series of acts, casualties or events was
committed or occurred before or during the Policy Period;

(f) | Applicable to Insuring Clause 6 as set forth in Item 2(F) of the Declarations for this
coverage section: for all loss resulting from any act, casualty or event, any series of
related acts, casualties or events, or any act or series of acts committed by the same
Third Party or in which the same Third Party is concemed or implicated, regardiess
of whether such act, casualty or event or series of acts, casualties or events was
committed or occurred before or during the Policy Period;

(g) Applicable to Insuring Clause 7 as set forth in Item 2(G) of the Declarations for this
coverage section: for all loss resulting from any act, casualty or event, any series of
related acts, casualties or events, or any act or series of acts committed by the same
Third Party or in which the same Third Party is concerned or implicated, regardless
of whether such act, casualty or event or series of acts, casualties or events was
committed or occurred before or during the Policy Period;

(h) Applicable to Insuring Clause 8 as set forth in Item 2(H) of the Declarations for this
coverage section: for all loss resulting from any act, casualty or event, any series of
related acts, casualties or events, or any act or series of acts committed by the same
Third Party or in which the same Third Party is concemed or implicated, regardless
of whether such act, casualty or event or series of acts, casualties or events was
committed or occurred before or during the Policy Period;

14-02-7307NY (Ed. 1/2004) Page 14 of 17

FICQ01353


Executive Protection Portfolio ™
Crime Coverage Section

(i) | Applicable to Insuring Clause 9 as set forth in Item 2(|) of the Declarations for this
coverage section: for all loss resulting from any act or any series of acts committed
by the same Employee or in which the same Employee is concemed or implicated,
regardless of whether such act or series of acts was committed before or during the
Policy Period; or

(j) | Applicable to Insuring Clause 10 as set forth in Item 2(J) of the Declarations for this
coverage section: for all Investigative Expenses or Computer Violation Expenses
resulting from any applicable covered loss.

If a loss is covered under more than one Insuring Clause, the maximum amount payable
under this coverage section shall not exceed the largest applicable Limit of Liability of any
such Insuring Clause.

The Company’s liability under this coverage section shall apply only to that part of each
loss which is in excess of the applicable Retention set forth in Item 3 of the Declarations for
this coverage section.

Non-Accumulation of Liability

26. When there is more than one Insured, the maximum liability of the Company for loss
sustained by any or all Insureds shall not exceed the amount for which the Company
would be liable if all loss was sustained by any one Insured.

Regardless of the number of years this coverage remains in effect and the total premium
amounts due or paid, whether under this coverage section, any prior bond or policy, or any
renewal or replacement of this coverage section, the liability of the Company with respect
fo any loss shall not be cumulative from year to year or from policy period to policy period.

Proof of Loss and Legal Proceedings

27. Knowledge possessed by any Insured or Discovery shall be deemed knowledge
possessed by or discovery by all Insureds.

It is a condition precedent to coverage hereunder that, upon Discovery, the Parent
Organization will:

(a) give written notice to the Company (or to a licensed agent of the Company in the
state of New York) at the earliest practicable moment, and in no event later than
ninety (90) days after such Discovery, with sufficient information to identify the
Parent Organization :;

(b) furnish affirmative proof of loss with full particulars to the Company at the earliest
practicable moment, and in no event later than six (6) months after such Discovery,

(c) submit to examination under oath at the Company’s request;

(d) produce all pertinent records at such reasonable times and places as the Company
shall designate; and

(€) provide full cooperation with the Company in all matters pertaining to a loss or claim.

14-02-7307NY (Ed. 1/2004) Page 15 of 17

FICQ01354


Executive Protection Portfolio ™
Crime Coverage Section

The Parent Organization may not offer, as a part of any proof of loss, any computation or
comparison which involves in any manner a profit and loss computation or comparison.
The Parent Organization may offer a comparison between an Organization’s or Client’s
inventory records and actual physical count of its inventory to prove the amount of loss,
only where an Organization or Client establishes wholly apart from such comparison that
it has sustained a covered loss caused by an identified Employee.

No Insured shall institute legal proceedings against the Company:

(a)
(b)

after two (2) years immediately following any Discovery, or

to recover a judgment or settlement against it or its bank resulting from Forgery,
Credit Card Fraud or related legal expenses as set forth in Subsection 22 Legal
Expenses Extension, after two (2) years immediately following the date upon which
such judgment shall become final or settlement was entered.

Valuation and Foreign Currency

28. The Company shall pay:

(a) _ the least of:

(i) the actual market value of lost, damaged or destroyed Securities at the closing
price of such Securities on the business day immediately preceding the day
on which a loss is Discovered;

(ii) | the cost of replacing Securities; or

(iii) | the cost to post a Lost Instrument Bond;

(b) the cost of blank books, pages or tapes or other blank materials to replace lost or
damaged books of account or other records;

(c) _ the least of.

(i) the actual cash value of Property, or

(ii) | the cost to repair or replace Property, other than precious metals, with that of
similar quality and value,

at the time the Parent Organization complies with Subsection 27 Proof of Loss and

Legal Proceedings, regarding the furnishing of proof of loss;

(d) the United States of America dollar value of foreign currency based on the rate of
exchange published in The Wail Street Journal on the day loss involving foreign
currency is Discovered; or

(e) the United States of America dollar value of any precious metal based on the amount
published in The Wall Street Journal Cash Prices, Precious Metals, on the day loss
involving such precious metal is Discovered.

14-02-7307NY (Ed. 1/2004) Page 16 of 17

FICO01355


Executive Protection Portfolio ™
Crime Coverage Section

Recoveries

29. Recoveries for any loss covered under this coverage section, whether effected by the
Company or by an Insured, less the cost of recovery, shall be distributed as follows:

(a) first, to an Insured for the amount of such loss, otherwise covered, in excess of the
applicable Limits of Liability; |

(b) second, to the Company for the amount of such loss paid to an Insured as covered
loss;

(c) third, to an Insured for the Retention applicable to such loss;

(d) fourth, to an Insured for the amount of such loss not covered under this coverage
section.

Recovery from reinsurance or indemnity of the Company shall not be deemed a recovery
hereunder.

Other Insurance

30. If any Insured or any other party in interest in any loss covered by this coverage section
has any valid and collectible bond, indemnity or insurance which would cover such loss in
whole or in part in the absence of this coverage section, then this coverage section shall be
null and void to the extent of the amount recoverable or received under such bond,
indemnity, or insurance; provided that this coverage section shall cover such loss, subject
to its limitations, conditions, provisions and other terms, to the extent of the amount of such
loss in excess of the amount recoverable or received under such bond, indemnity or
insurance.

14-02-7307NY (Ed. 1/2004) Page 17 of 17

FICQ01356


ENDORSEMENT
Coverage Section: Executive Protection Portfolio Crime Coverage Section (Fed - NY)

Effective date of
this endorsement: June 25, 2014 Company: Federal Insurance Company

Endorsement No. 1
To be attached to and
form a part of Policy No. 8212-1392

Issued to: MEDIDATA SOLUTIONS INC.

AMEND DEFINITION OF EXECUTIVE ENDORSEMENT

In consideration of the premium charged, it is agreed that subparagraph (a) of the term Executive as defined in
Subsection 11 Definitions of this coverage section is amended to read in its entirety as follows:

(a) duly elected or appointed director, officer, trustee, member of the Board of Managers or management
committee member of an Organization chartered in the United States of America;

The title and any headings in this endorsement are solely for convenience and form no part of the terms and conditions of
coverage.

All other terms, conditions and limitations of this policy shall remain unchanged.

QO WO

Authorized Representative

14-02-10894 (5/2005) Page 1

FICQ0135/


ENDORSEMENT/RIDER
Coverage Section: Executive Protection Portfolio Crime Coverage Section (Fed - NY)

Effective date of
this endorsement/rider: June 25, 2014 Federal Insurance Company

Endorsement/Rider No. 2
To be attached to and

form a part of Policy No. 8212-1392

Issued to: MEDIDATA SOLUTIONS INC.

PRIVACY AND DATA BREACH EXCLUSIONS ENDORSEMENT

In consideration of the premium charged, it is agreed that Subsection 12, Exclusions of this coverage section, is
amended as follows:

1. Exclusion 12.(b) is deleted.
2. No coverage will be available for:
(i) loss involving the disclosure of an Insured’s or another entity or person’s confidential or

personal information while in the care, custody or control of an Insured including, but not
limited to, patents, trade secrets, processing methods, customer lists, financial
information, credit card information, health information or any similar type of nonpublic
information;

(ii) loss involving the use of another entity or person's confidential or personal information
while in the care, custody or control of an Insured including, but not limited to, patents,
trade secrets, processing methods, customer lists, financial information, credit card
information, health information or any similar type of nonpublic information: or

(iii) fees, costs, fines, penalties or any other expenses incurred by an Insured which result,
directly or indirectly, from the access to or disclosure of another entity or person’s
confidential or personal information, including but not limited to, patents, trade secrets,
processing methods, customer lists, financial information, credit card information, health
information or any similar type of nonpublic information,

provided, however, that the above exclusions shall not apply to loss that is otherwise covered
under Insuring Clause 6, Funds Transfer Fraud Coverage.

14-02-19672 (03/2013) Page 1

FIC001358


The title and any headings in this endorsement/rider are solely for convenience and form no part of the terms and
conditions of coverage.

All other terms, conditions and limitations of this Policy shall remain unchanged.

OQ MW

Authorized Representative

14-02-19672 (03/2013) Page 2
FIC001359


ENDORSEMENT

Coverage Section: Executive Protection Portfolio Crime Coverage Section (Fed - NY)

Effective date of
this endorsement: June 25, 2014 Company: Federal Insurance Company

Endorsement No. 3

To be attached to and
form a part of Policy No. 8212-1392

Issued to: MEDIDATA SOLUTIONS INC.

CONVERSION ENDORSEMENT

In consideration of the premium charged, it is agreed that:

(1)

(2)

Subsection 19, Exclusions, of this coverage section is amended to read in its entirety as follows:

19.

No coverage will be available under this coverage section for.

(a) loss unless sustained by an Insured and Discovered prior to the termination of this
coverage section as to such Insured;

(b) loss unless sustained and Discovered prior to the termination of any Insuring Clause or
any particular coverage offered under any Insuring Clause; or

(c) loss unless sustained and Discovered prior to the termination of this coverage section in
its entirety;

provided that in no event will coverage be available under this coverage section for such loss if
Such loss is covered under any renewal or replacement of this coverage section or any Insuring
Clause or any particular coverage offered under any Insuring Clause.

The first paragraph of Subsection 23, Changes in Exposure, of this coverage section is amended to read in its
entirety as follows:

If before or during the Policy Period any Organization:

(a)

(b)

acquires securities or voting rights in another organization or creates another organization, which
as a result of such acquisition or creation becomes a Subsidiary; or

acquires another organization by merger into or consolidation with such Organization such that
such Organization is the surviving entity,

14-02-8592 (07/2005) rev. Page 1

FIC001360


then coverage shall be provided for such acquired organization or new Subsidiary for loss Discovered
after the effective date of such acquisition or creation.

(3) Subsection 24, Liability for Prior Losses, of this coverage section is deleted in its entirety. Accordingly, any and
all references to Subsection 24 are deleted in their entirety

(4) The first paragraph of Subsection 25, Limits of Liability and Retention, of this coverage section is amended to
read in its entirety as follows:

The Company shall only be liable for loss sustained by an Insured prior to termination of this coverage section

and Discovered during the Policy Period.

The title and any headings in this endorsementare solely for convenience and form no part of the terms and conditions of
coverage.

All other terms, conditions and limitations of this policy shall remain unchanged.

O_ WO.

Authorized Representative

44-02-8592 (07/2005) rev. Page 2
F|C001361


ENDORSEMENT
Coverage Section: Executive Protection Portfolio Crime Coverage Section (Fed - NY)

Effective date of
this endorsement: June 25, 2014 Company: Federal Insurance Company

Endorsement No. 4
To be attached to and

form a part of Policy No. 8212-1392

Issued to: MEDIDATA SOLUTIONS INC.

DELETE EXCLUSION 17 ENDORSEMENT

In consideration of the premium charged, it is agreed that Exclusion 17 of this coverage section is deleted.

The title and any headings in this endorsement are solely for convenience and form no part of the terms and conditions of
coverage.

All other terms, conditions and limitations of this policy shall remain unchanged.

2 Ma

Authorized Representative

14-02-8754 (8/2003) Page 1

FIC001362


ENDORSEMENT
Coverage Section: Executive Protection Portfolio Crime Coverage Section (Fed - NY)

Effective date of
this endorsement: June 25, 2014 Company: Federal Insurance Company

Endorsement No. 5
To be attached to and

form a part of Policy No. 8212-1392

Issued to. MEDIDATA SOLUTIONS INC.

AMEND EXCLUSION 19 ENDORSEMENT

In consideration of the premium charged, it is agreed that Exclusion 19 of this coverage section is amended to read in its
entirety as follows:

19. No coverage will be available under this coverage section for:

(a) loss unless sustained by an Insured prior to the termination of this coverage
section as to such Insured, and Discovered and written notice thereof is
given to the Company within sixty (60) days following such termination;

(b) loss unless sustained prior to the termination of any Insuring Clause or any
particular coverage offered under any Insuring Clause, and Discovered and
written notice thereof is given to the Company within sixty (60) days following
such termination; or

(c) loss unless sustained prior to the termination of this coverage section in its
entirety, and Discovered and written notice thereof is given to the Company
within sixty (60) days following such termination;

provided that in no event will coverage be available under this coverage section for such loss if such loss

is covered under any renewal or replacement of this coverage section or any Insuring Clause or any
particular coverage offered under any Insuring Clause issued by the Company or by any affiliate of the

Company.

The title and any headings in this endorsement are solely for convenience and form no part of the terms and conditions of
coverage.

14-02-8907 (10/2004) REV. Page 1

FICO01363


All other terms, conditions and limitations of this policy shall remain unchanged.

OMA

Authorized Representative

14-02-8907 (10/2004) REV. Page 2

FICQ01364