



. STATE OF GEORGIA
COUNTY OF DEKALB

KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS, thst in considerstion of THREE
HUNDRED AND FIFTY THOUSAND end 00/100 DOLLARS ($350,000.00) paid to
ENTAIRE GLOBAL COMPANIES, INC., ENTAIRE GLOBAL FINANCIAL, INC.,
JONATHAN D. ROSEN AND WILLIAM R. MUIRHEAD (hereinafter referred to as
“Releasors”) hereby release and forever discharge AMERICAN GUARANTEE AND
LIABILITY INSURANCE COMPANY, together with its past or present officer, directors

cmmployees, agents, attorneys, insurers, affiliated companies, subcontractors, subsidiaries, parestt |

companies, successors and assigns, jointly and severally, (hereinafter collectively referred to as
“Releasees”) from any and all consequences of the incident(s) underlying or giving rise to the
following lawsuits: Civil Action No. 2006-cv-120104 in the Superior Court of Fulton County,
and Civil Action No. 07-CV-6694-9 in the Superior Court of DeKalb County (hereinafter
collectively “the Lawsuits”), and any and all consequences arising from the Lawsuits themselves
(Releasors and Releasees to be collectively referred to as the “Parties’). Releasors have
previously presented Releases with a claim for damages arising out of the Lawsuits and it is the
intent of Releasors to release Releasees from any and all claims, damages, loss, whether known
or unknown, made or which could have been made, which are directly or indirectly related to the
Lawsuits in exchange for the payment set forth above. Additionally, Releasors covenant not to
sue Releasees for any claim, damage, or loss whether known or unknown, which are directly or
imdirectly related to the Lawsuits or the incidents underlying or giving rise to the Lawsuits.
Releasors further agree to dismiss Civil Action No. O7-CV-6694-9 in the Superior Court of

1of8

Ban RTS eee

By rn tetes eaten et


DeKalb County with prejudice. Likewise, Releasees release Releasors from any and all claims,
damages, loss, whether known or unknown, made or which could have been made, which are
directly or indirectly related to the Lawsuits, as part of the consideration for Releasors’

Releasors further represent and warrant that they have not assigned to any othec person or
party all or any portion of the claim whatsoever that ENTAIRE GLOBAL COMPANIES,
INC,, ENTAIRE GLOBAL FINANCIAL, INC., JONATHAN D. ROSEN AND WILLIAM
R. MUIRHEAD may have or claim to have against Releasees, and that no other person or party
is subrogated to any of Releasors’ rights in this matter.

In consideration of the foregoing payment, the Parties hereby declare, represent and

1. That Parties are each petsons over 18 yeers of age or corporate entities registered
to do business in the State of Georgia and are each fully competent to enter into this agreement,
and that each is operating under no present disability or limitation which would affect their
capacity to enter into this agreement, and that each is sui juris

2. That Parties rely wholly on their own jadgment, and that of their attorneys, in
entering into this Release, and that the decision to enter into this Release is made without
reliance upon any statement or representation by Releasees, Releasors, or their respective
representatives, agents or attomeys, regarding the merits, legal liability or value of this claim or
any matters relating thereto. | | |

3. That Parties each enter into this Release voluntarily.

2 of6


*

4, ‘That no promise or inducement or agreement not herein expressed has been made
by the Parties and that this Release contains the entire agreement between the Parties, and that
the terms of this reement ae conzartunl an not 8 mere rsa |

5. Releasors further represent and werrent that Releasors have not assigned to any
other person or party all or any portion of the claim whatsoever that Releasors may have or claim
to have against Releases and that no other person or party is subrogated to any of Releasors’
rights in this matter. |

Reteasors onderstund and acknowledge that Releases, in providing the consideration
herein described, duly rely upon the truth, aocuracy and validity of all promises, representations
and warranties of the Releasors contained herein.

If IS FURTHER UNDERSTOOD AND AGREED that Parties admnit no liability to each
other, or others, and that this settlement is » compromise of doubtful end disputed claims, and
that the considerations exchanged herein shall not be construed as an admission of liability on
the part of Releasees or Releasors, but that said liability is disputed and specifically denied by
Releasees and Releasors. |

IT IS UNDERSTOOD AND AGREED that this is a Release of any and all actions,
causes of actions, rights of action, claims and demands of whatsoever kind and nature between
‘the Parties arising from and for, upon or by reason of any damage, loss or injury, known or
unknown, which may be traced either directly or indirectly to the Lawsuits or any incident or
occurrence underlying or giving rise to the Lawsuits, even to the extent of death, or as may
appear at any time in the future, no matter how remotely any such potential claim may be related
fo the Lawsuits or any incident or occurrence underlying or giving rise to the Lawsuits.

3 of 6


__ IT IS FURTHER UNDERSTOOD AND AGREED that Releasors do hereby agree to
protect, indemnify and hold harmless Releases against any claim or lien, or any other
subrogation claim or lien by any insurance company, government agency, law firm, inclading,
but not limited to, Alston & Bird LLP and Mason Bahr LLP, or any other entity related to the
Lawsuits or any incident or oocurrence underlying or giving rise to the Lawsuits. |

The consideration referenced herein is accepted in compromise and settlement, and is
Full and Final Satisfaction of any and all claiths, whether specifically stated or not, which were
asserted or might have been asserted by the Parties in the Lawsuits.

IT IS FURTHER UNDERSTOOD AND AGREED thatthe fms ofthis Reeve ani Se
terms of the settlement of this claim shall not be used to the detriment of the Parties, shall remain

confidential, and shall not be daclosed 10 aay person not party or privy to this settement
except as may be required by law. It is further agreed that the confidentiality of the settlement is
for the mutual benefit of Releasors and Releasees and that no part of the monetary payment is in

In entering into this Release, Parties represent that they have read all the terms hereof and
understand and voluntarily accept all the terms hereof, and that they have been adequately

represented and advised by their own legal counsel.
This Release shall be construed and interpreted in accordance with the laws of the State

ofGeorgia,
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Paris or tn rnd and repsaciive eps hve

hereunto set their hands on the day and year set forth below.

4 of 6


This day of January, 2008.

Print Ngm Ke sen
Its: CEO tg

Sworn to and subscribed

before me this the 74"
day of _/Z 2008.
Kate Lo fe AY —~
. JONATHAND. ROSEN

5 of 6


Sworn to and subscribed,
any,

before me this the
day of hence Zo
AR’ 7,

sls

6 of 8

a he or *
