

mnany . po Customer: « ry POND
PLS Loan Store of Texas, Inc. Transaction Number: PD216-26736-72970001S!
- - . = . . . re * "40 bd
CREDIT SERVICES AGREEMENT | Customer Number: P0216 26736-7297
Payday Installment Address: 3014 LEANN DR, ROWLETT, TX 75088
e-mail address: N/A

THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF THIS CREDIT SERVICES AGREEMENT (“AGREEMENT”) ARE IMPORTANT, Picase read the
entire agreement.

In this Agreement, the words “Customer,” “Buyer,” "you" and "your" mean the person that is identified under the heading “Customer” above. The
words “Seller,” “we," "us," and “our” mean PLS Loan Store of Texas, Inc., a licensed Texas Credit Access Business (“CAB"), operating pursuant to
Chapter 393 of the Texas Finance Code (“Chapter 393”), The lender from whom the extension of consumer credit is obtained is DSI Lending
Resources, Inc,

Description of Our Services: We are not a lender or fiduciary. For the CAB fee set forth below, we will attempt to (1) obtain a loan in the amount
and for the term set forth below from DSI Lending Resources, Inc., a third party lender, with a contract rate of interest of no more than ten percent per
annum (10%); (2) issue a letter of credit (“LOC”) to secure that loan; and (3) assist you in preparing and completing documents necessary to obtain the
loan. The estimated period for performing these services shall be one day, Additionally, we will also attempt to: (4) assist you in creating a positive
credit history, if requested, through routine reporting of your payments to an allernative consumer reporting agency; (5) assist you in making your
payments timely by providing a reminder service; (6) upon request, provide consumer financial cducation materials; (7) where available, provide
discounted check cashing services to facilitate payment(s); and (8) maintain a network of branch locations to provide certain CAB services. These
additional services may be provided throughout the term, We do not promise that you will actually receive a loan. All credit decisions shall be made
by a third party lender. HOWEVER, YOU WILL NOT OWE US A FEE IP YOUR LOAN APPLICATION IS DENIED BY THE LENDER, The
precise amount of your finance charge will depend upon the amount that the lender allows you to borrow, and the term of the loan. You have been
advised that our CAB services and the third party loan, if any, you receive may not be at the lowest rate or vest terms available, and that you
may look elsewhere for credit services and a loan. A credit access business must comply with Chapter 392 and the federal Fair Debt Collection
Practices Act (15 U.S.C. Section 1692 et seq.) with respect to an extension of consumer credit described by Section 393.602(a). A credit access
business must comply, to the extent applicable, with 10 U.S.C. Section 987 and any regulations adopted under that law with respect to an cxtension of
consumer eredit described by Section 393.602(a).

Disclosure of Fee as Finance Charge: Although the fee that we charge you is not interest, the Federal Trath in Lending Act requires that it be
included in the finance charge calculation for your loan.

COST AND PAYMENT TERMS. Our CAB fee is based upon 708.90% annualized rate on the amount finaneed on the loan to you by the Lender,
Our CAB fee is due when the loan is made and is financed as part of the loan to you from the Lender, On the payday installment loan of $300.00 you
have applied for, payable in LO payments with interest of 10.00% per annum charged by the Lender, the Amount Financed is 300,00, the Pinance
Charge is $561.15. The Finanee Charge consists of the interest paid or to be paid to the Lender, in the amount of $3.00 and our CAB fee for this
transaction of $556.15. ‘The Annual Percentage Rate is 713.38%, payments commencing on 4/20/2012, in the amount of $86.15, Followed by regular
bi-weekly payments of $86.15 each, with a final payment of $85.80 on 8/24/2012, and the Total of Payments is $86.15. You will be entitled to a
refund of part of the CAB fee based on a prorated daily basis for the final period with respect to payment in full or acceleration of maturity. Under any
loan that we may abtain for you, if you pay off your loan early, you will not have to pay a penalty and your finance charge may be reduced. There is no

prepayment penalty,

Besides the CAB fees, you are responsible to reimburse CAB for any amounts CAB pays the Lender on the letter of credit, plus 10% per annum until
(he reimbursement is paid, a return item fee of $30 for any check, ACH debit, electronic check, or other payment device that is returned unpaid,
attorneys’ fees, and costs of collection, Besides interest to the Lender, you would be responsible to the Lender for a late charge equal to the greater of
5% or $7.50, if payment is 10 or more days late, a return item {ce of $30 for any check, ACH debit, electronic check, or other payment device that is
returned unpaid, and attorneys! fees, and costs of collection,

juest us to issue our irrevocable LOC in favor of the third party lender as beneficiary in accordance with

LOC and Obligation to Reimburse: You rec
licable, on

Chapter $ of the Texas Business and Commerce Code, in an amount not to exceed principal, interest, returned item fee, and late fee, as app
the loan that we arrange for you. You agree fo pay us any amounts paid by us to third parties pursuant to the LOC. Our payment on the LOC to the
lender is conditioned upon presentnent by the lender to us of(a) the lender's sight draft, and (b) the lender's statement that your loan is in default and
hag been in default at least 10 days from its due date. The LOC will expire the earlier of 55 days after maturity of the loan we arrange for you or the
date the loan is paid in full, If you timely exercise your right to cancel this Agreement, our LOC shall be automatically revoked and shal! have no
further effect. You instruct us to pay the lender’s sight draft up to the maximum amount of the LOC upon presentation to us of documentation
complying with the conditions set forth above. You understand that we are nol responsible for determining the accuracy of any statement made by the
lender/ LOC beneficiary and that our duty is strictly to pay upon proper presentment of documents. No part of this Agreement, nor any charge or
receipt by us, is intended to permit us to Impose any amount in excess of lawful amounts. If an unlawful excess occurs, we will apply if as a credit or
otherwise refund if and (he rate or amount involved will automatically be reduced to the maximum lawful rate or amount, To the extent permitted by
law, for purposes of determining our compliance with law, we may calculate charges by amortizing, prorating, allocating or spreading.

EXHIBIT ~ 0101 12v5

SS \

Page | of 6



DEFAULT: You will be in default under th4+-Agreement if (1) you do not pay us what you owe yr~ader this Agreement on or before the payment date;
(2) if you fail to perform your other promis: us; or (3) you fail to perform your obligations tot! ander, [you default, your obligations, less any
uncarned charges, will become immediately due and payable, and you agree that we shall have the right to take any of the following actions to the extent
allowed by applicable law: (1) we shall have the right to seck collection of any check or similar security you have provided us; and (2) we may exercise
any other right or remedy allowed by law and this Agreement,

NOTICES AND WAIVERS; Except for aotices provided in this Agreement, you, and others responsible, to the extent permitted by law, waive
demand, notice of nonpayment, notice of intention to accelerate, notice of acceleration, presentment, and notice of dishonor, To the extent
permitted by law, you, and others responsible, also agree: we may waive or delay enforcing our rights without losing them; we are not
required to file suit or arbitrate, show diligence in collection against you or others responsible, or go against any collateral; we may release or
modify any person's liability without changing the liability of others; we may substitute, exchange or release any collateral; we may sue or
arbitrate with one or more persons without joining or suing others; and we may renew or extend the obligations owed to us as often and for so
long as we desire without notice to or approval by others responsible.

WAIVER OF RIGHT TO TRIAL BY JURY: You acknowledge that there is a constitutional right to trial by jury but it may be waived under
certain circumstances, To the extent permitted by law, you, us, and Lender, knowingly and voluntarily waive any right to trial by jury in the event of
litigation arising out of or related to this Agreement. This jury trial waiver shall not affect or be interpreted as modifying in any fashion the Jury Trial
Waiver and Arbitration Agreement if you do not reject that Jury Trial Waiver and Arbitration Agreement.

COMPLIANCE: It is the intention of CAB and Lender to comply with applicable law. In cach and every instance, CAB’s and Lender's respective
rights are limited by applicable law (fo the extent they may not be lawfully waived), construed so as to comply with applicable laws, and CAB's and
Lender's rights may not be exercised except to the extent permitted by applicable law, No charge or receipt by CAB or Lender, or any other person on
CAB's or Lender's behalf, is intended to exceed lawful amounts, [fan unlawful excess occurs, it will be applied as a credit or otherwise refunded, and
the rate or amount involved wil! automatically be reduced to the maximum lawful rale or amount, To the extent permitted by law, for purposes of
determining CAB’s and Lender’s compliance with the law, CAB and Lender may calculate charges by amortizing, prorating, allocating and spreading.

PRE-SUIT NOTICE REGARDING LEGAL COMPLIANCE: Prior to initiating any claim that this agreement or related maticr, or any action or
inaction by us or Lender, or by any other person, is legally non-compliant, illegal or unenforceable, you must provide us and Lender with detailed
written notice of the claim and relief requested and a reasonable opportunity of not [ess than 60 days to cure the claim. Any notice to us or to Lender
must be sent by certified mail, return receipt requested, to PLS Loan Store of Texas, Inc,, Attn, Legal Department, 300 North Elizabeth, 4th Floor,
Chicago, IL. 60607, Any corrective action shall relieve us and Lender of any liability to the extent permitted by law, To the extent permitted by law, this
requirement for pre-suit notice is cumulative of any notices and corrective-action procedures required by applicable flaw and other contract provisions,

Collection Expenses: You agree to pay our reasonable attorneys’ fees if this Agreement is referred to an attorney for collection, regardless of whether
legal proceedings are actually filed, and all costs and disbursements. A person may not threaten or pursuc criminal charges against you related to a
check or other debit authorization provided by the consumer as sccurity for a loan, in the absence of forgery, fraud, theft, or other criminal conduct.
Interstate Commerce: You agree that this Agreement involves interstate commerce for all purposes.

Assignment: We may transfer any of our rights, titles and interests under this Agrcement at our discretion. You may not transfer your rights under this
Agreement without our prior written consent. .

Miscellaneous: Our principal place of business is PLS Loan Store of Texas, Inc., 300 North Elizabeth, 4th Floor, Chicago, IL 60607. Our agent in
‘Texas authorized to receive service of process is: National Registered Agents, Inc., 16053 Space Center Bivd., Suite 235, Houston, ‘Texas 77062. Our

phone number is 312-491-7300,

WAIVER OF JURY TRIAL AND ARBITRATION PROVISION: Arbitration is a process in which persons with a dispute: (a) waive their rights to
file a lawsuit and proceed in court and to have a jury vial to resolve their disputes; and (b) agrec, instead, to submit their disputes to a neutral third
person (an “arbitrator”) for a decision. Each party to the dispute has an opportunity to present some evidence to the arbitrator, Pre-arbitration discovery
may be limited. Arbitration proceedings are private and less formal than court trials. The arbitrator will issue a final and binding decision resolving the
dispute, which may be enforced as a court judgment, A court rarcly overturns an arbitrator’s decision. THEREFORE, YOU ACKNOWLEDGE AND
AGREE AS FOLLOWS:

1. For purposes of this Waiver of Jury Trial and Arbitration Provision (hercinafler the “Arbitration Provision”), the words “dispute” and “disputes” are
given the broadest possible meaning and include, without limitation (a) all claims, disputes, or controversies arising from or relating directly or
indirectly to the signing of this Arbitration Provision, Ue validity and scope of this Arbitration Provision and any claim or attempt to set aside this
Arbitration Provision; (b) all federal or state law claims, disputes or controversics, arising from or relating directly or indirectly to this
Agreement(including the Arbilration Provision), the information you gave us before entering into this Disclosure Statement, and/or any past and/or
future claims or disputes between you and us and/or any Lender who provides you with a loan as a result of our services (the “Lender”), (c) all
counterclaims, cross-claims and third party claims; (d) all common law claims, based upon contract, tort, fraud, or other intentional torts; (¢) all claims
based upon a violation of any state or federal constitution, statule or regulation; (f) all claims asserted by us against you, including claims for money
damages to collect any sum we claim you owe us and/or the Lender; (g) all claims asserted by you individually against us and/or any of our employees,
agents, directors, officers, shareholders, managers, members, parent Company or affiliated entities (hereinaNer collectively referred to as “related third
parties”), including claims for money damages and/or equitable or injunctive relief; (h) all claims asserted on your behalf by another person, (1) all
claims asserted by you as a private attorney general, as a representative and member of a class of persons, or in any ather representative capacity, against
us and/or related third parties (hereinafter reterred to as “Representative Claims"); and/or (j) all claims arising from or relating directly or indirectly to
the disclosure by us or related third partics of any non-public personal information about you,

Page 2 of 6 O101 12v5



2. You acknowledge and agree that by cntepi-a into this Arbitration Provision: poy,

(a) YOU ARE GIVING UP YOUR RIC¢ TO HAVE A TRIAL BY JURY TO RESOLV — VY DISPUTE ALLEGED AGAINST US, THE
LENDER AND/OR OUR/ITS = RELATED THIRD PARTIES;

(vp) YOU ARE GIVING UP YOUR RIGHT TO HAVE A COURT, OTHER THAN A SMALL CLAIMS TRIBUNAL, RESOLVE ANY
DISPUTE ALLEGED AGAINST — US, THE LENDER AND/OR OURATS RELATED THIRD PARTIES; and

(c) YOU ARE GIVING UP YOUR RIGHT TO SERVE AS A REPRESENTATIVE, AS A PRIVATE ATTORNEY GENERAL, OR IN ANY
OTHER REPRESENTATIVE CAPACITY, OR TO PARTICIPATE AS A MEMBER OF A CLASS OF CLAIMANTS, IN ANY LAWSUIT
FILED AGAINST US, THE LENDER AND/OR OUR/AITS RELATED THIRD PARTIES. YOUR DISPUTE MAY NOT BE
CONSOLIDATED WITH THE DISPUTE OF ANY OTHER PERSON(S) FOR ANY PURPOSE(S),

3. Except as provided in Paragraph 6 below, all disputes including any Representative Claims against us, the Lender and/or our/its related third parties
shall be resolved by binding arbitration only on an individual basis with you.

THEREFORE, THE ARBITRATOR SHALL NOT CONDUCT CLASS ARBITRATION; THAT IS, THE ARBITRATOR SHALL NOT
ALLOW YOU TO SERVE AS A REPRESENTATIVE, AS A PRIVATE ATTORNEY GENERAL, OR IN ANY OTHER REPRESENTATIVE
CAPACITY FOR OTHERS IN THE ARBITRATION. Notwithstanding any other provision herein to the contrary, the validity, effect, and
enforceability of this waiver of class action lawsuit and class-wide arbitration shall be determined solely by a court of competent jurisdiction and not by
the arbitrator. If the arbitrator fails or refuses to abide by the class-wide arbitration waiver and the court refuses to enforce the class-wide arbitration
waiver, the parties agree that the dispute will proceed in court under applicable court rules and procedures, following all appeals, if any, of the court's
decision.

4, Upon the election by you, us, or Lender, any dispute shall be resolved by binding arbitration in accordance with this arbitration provision and the
rules of the arbitration organization that is sclected. Either you, we, or Lender, as applicable, may give written notice to the other of an intention to
require arbitration of the other party's dispute at any time, even if the other party has begun a lawsuit. If a judgment has been entered in a lawsuit
regarding a dispute, however, then neither we, Lender, nor you ean demand arbitration on the matters included in the judgment. Affer notice by either
party to the other, you may select the arbitration organization of your choice from: American Arbitration Association, 335 Madison Avenue, New York,
NY 10017, www.adr.org, (800) 778-7879; JAMS 1920 Main Street, Suite 300, Irvine, CA 92614, jamsadr.com, 800-352-5267; or any other arbitrator
(including an attamey, retired judge, or an arbitrator registered and in good standing with an arbitration association) reasonably satisfactory to us. [f you
do not select an arbitrator within 20 days after notice, we shall be entitled to select one. If the named organization will not conduct the arbitration
according to this provision, or if we are not able to agree on another arbitrator, you agree that we may ask any court of competent jurisdiction to appoint
an arbitrator to conduct the arbitration in accordance with this arbitration agreement. ‘The individual arbitrator shall be chosen in accordance with the
rules of the selected arbitration organization, but if that organization or arbitrator has no published rules, then in accordance with the Rules of the AAA
for Consumer Arbitrations, You, we, and Lender agree that any arbitration organization that permits class actions in arbitration may not be selected to
arbitrate disputes, If you ask us fo, we or Lender, as applicable, will advance all or part of the arbitration filing, administrative, and/or hearing fees
required for the arbitration, up to $1000; the arbitrator will decide whether we, Lender, or you, as applicable, will ultimately be responsible to pay those
fees. In no event will you be required to reimburse us or Lender for any arbitration filing, administrative and/or hearing fees in an amount greater than
what your court costs would have been if the dispute had been resolved in a state court with jurisdiction. IC is the intention of CAB and Lender to
comply with applicable law, In cach and every instance, CAB’s and Lender's respective rights are limited by applicable law (to the extent they may not
be lawfully waived), construed so as to comply with applicable laws, and CAB’s and Lender's rights may not be exercised except to the extent permitted
by applicable law. No charge or receipt by CAB or Lender, or any other person on CAB’s or Lender's behalf, is intended to exceed lawful amounts. I
an unlawful excess occurs, it will be applied as a credit or otherwise refunded, and the rate or amount involved will automatically be rcduced to the
maximum lawful rate or amount. fo the extent permitted by law, for purposes of determining CAB’s and Lender's compliance with the law, CAI and
Lender may calculate charges by amortizing, prorating, allocating and spreading. Rach party agrees to provide the other written notice and a reasonable
opportunity of at least 30 days to remedy any circumstances that the parly contends might preclude arbitration of a dispute.

5. Regardless of who demands arbitration, at your request we will advance your portion of the arbitration expenses, including the Dling, administrative,
hearing and arbitrator's fees (“Arbitration Fees”). ‘Throughout the arbitration, each party shall bear his or her own altorncys’ feces and expenses, such as
witness and expert witness fees; but without limitation of any party’s ability to recover costs and attorneys’ fees (o the extent authorized by law. The
arbitrator shall apply applicable substantive law consistent with the Federal Arbitration Act (“PAA”), and applicable statutes of limitation, and shall
honor claims of privilege recognized at law. ‘The arbitration hearing will be conducted in the county of your residence, or within 30 miles from such
county, or in such other place as shall be ordered by the arbitrator. The arbitrator may decide, with or without a hearing, any motion that is substantially
similar fo a motion to dismiss for failure to state a claim or a motion for summary judgment. In conducting the arbitration proceeding, the arbitrator
shall not apply any federal or state rules of civil procedure or evidence, If the arbitrator renders a decision or an award in your favor resolving the
dispute, then you will not be responsible for reimbursing us for your portion of the Arbitration Fees, and we will reimburse you for any Arbitration Fees
you have previously paid. If the arbitrator does not render a decision or an award in your favor resolving the dispute, then the arbitrator shall require
you to reimburse us for the Arbitration Fees we have advanced, not to exceed the amount which would have been assessed as court cosis if the dispute
had been resolved by a state court with jurisdiction, less any Arbitration Fees you have previously paid. At the timely request of any party, the arbitrator
shall provide a written explanation for the award. The arbitrator's award may be fled with any court having jurisdiction.

6. All parties, including related third parties, shall retain the right to seek adjudication in a small claims tribunal for disputes within the scope of such
tribunal’s jurisdiction, Any dispute, which cannot be adjudicated within the jurisdiction of a small claims tribunal, shall be resolved by binding
arbitration. Any appeal of a judgment from a small claims tribunal shall be resolved by binding arbitration.
7. This Arbitration Provision is made pursuant to a transaction involving interstate commerce and shall be governed by the FAA, Uf a final,
non-appealable judgment of a court having jurisdiction over this ransaction finds, for any reason, thal the FAA does not apply to this transaction, then
our agreement to arbitrate shall be governed by the arbitration law of the State of Texas.

8. This Arbitration Provision is binding upon and benefits you, your respective heirs, successors and assigns, This Arbitration Provision is binding
upon and benefits us, the Lender, and/or our/its successors and assigns, and related third parties. This Arbitration Provision continues in fill force and
effect, even if your obligations have been paid or discharged (rough bankruptcy. This Arbitration Provision survives any (ermination, amendment,
expiration or performance of any transaction between you and us and continues in full foree and effect unless you and we otherwise agree in writing. 1f
any of this Arbitration Provision is held invalid, (he remainder shall remain in effect, unless the provision precluding the arbitrator from conducting a
class or consolidated arbitration as set forth in paragraph 3 above is deemed invalid or unenforceable, in which case this entire Arbitration Provision
shall be decmed void and the partics shall proceed in court,

Page 3 of 6 0101 12v5

+ gas


>, OPT-OUT PROCESS. You may choose, f fo opt-out of and not be subject to this Arbitration Provision but only by following the process set forth
below. If you do nol wish to be subject to“ “Arbitration Provision, then you must notify us inf” “ng within nincty (90) calendar days of the date of
this Agreement at (he following address PL. Juan Store of Texas, Inc., Attn: Arbitration Opt-Ou, . 8 Loan Store of Texas, Inc., 300 North Elizabeth,
4th Floor, Chicago, 1. 60607. Your written notice must include your name, address, social securily number, the date of this Agreement, and a statement
that you wish to opt-out of this Arbitration Provision. Your notice to opt-out will only apply to this particular (ransaction with us and not to subsequent
or previous transactions, a separate opt-out notice is required for each transaction on which you wish to opt-out of this Arbitration Provision.

GOVERNING LAW: This Credit Services Agreement will be governed by the laws of the State of Texas, except that the Waiver of Jury Trial And
Arbitration Provision is governed by the Federal Arbitration Act (“FAA”).

CAUTION: THE CREDIT SERVICES WE PROVIDE AND THE LOAN WE MAY ARRANGE FROM LENDER ARE NOT INTENDED
TO MEET LONG-TERM FINANCIAL NEEDS. SUCH CREDIT SERVICES AND LOAN SHOULD ONLY BE USED TO MEET
IMMEDIATE SHORT-TERM CASH NEEDS, REPEATED OR FREQUENT USE CAN CREATE SERIOUS FINANCIAL HARDSHIPS,
BEFORE ENTERING ANY AGREEMENT OR A SPECIFIC TRANSACTION, YOU SHOULD EVALUATE THE COSTS AND
BENEFITS OF ALL ALTERNATIVES, INCLUDING A LOAN FROM ANOTHER LENDER (WITHOUT THE ASSISTANCE OF A CAB),
A LOAN FROM FAMILY OR FRUENDS, A CREDIT CARD CASH ADVANCE, AN ADVANCE UNDER AN ACCOUNT WITH
OVERDRAFT PROTECTION, OR A SALARY ADVANCE.

For complaints against this or any other Credit Access Business, please contact the Texas Office of Consumer Credit Commissioner's Consumer
Assistance Help-line at 800,538,1579, by e-mail at consumer.complainis@occe.state.(x.us, or by mail at 2601 N. Lamar Blvd., Austin, Texas 78705,

ENTIRE AGREEMENT: This Agreement is the entire agreement between you and us relating to the subject maticr of this Agreement. No
modification of this Agreement shall be effective unless in writing and signed by you and us. [f any provision of this Agreement is determined to be
invalid or unenforceable, such provision shall be reformed if practicable so as to achieve its intended purpose(s) and shall not in any way affect the
remaining provisions of this Agreement.

By signing below: @) YOU een etean THA TYOU HAVE RECEIVED, READ and RETAINED A COPY OF (1) A SEPARATE

If T; 2) THIS ZES AGREEMENT WITH ALL NECESSARY SPACES
COMPLETED; Oy T Wwo NOTICES OF CANCELLATION (by you certify ‘hat you have read, understood and agree to all of the terms and
conditions of this Credit Services Agreement, including the binding Waiver Of Jury Trial And Arbitration Provision; (c) you certify that all of the
information you have provided in connection with this Credit Services Agreement is ue and correct; (d) you warrant that you are not a debtor under
any proceeding in bankruptcy, and have no intention to file a petition for relicf under the United States Bankruptey Code; (c) you warrant that the
account on which any check, ACH debit, electronic check, or similar payment device that you provide to us is drawn, is a legitimate, open, and active
account; and (f) you agree thal we may obtain and share any information you provide to us or that we obtain from third parties in connection with this
Credit Services Agreement, including credit information and credit reports, with the third party lender or our affiliates, for the duration of the services or
any subsequent services.

NOTICE: YOU, THE BUYER, MAY CANCEL THIS CONTRACT AT ANY TIME BEFORE MIDNIGHT OF THE THIRD DAY AFTER
THE DATE OF THE TRANSACTION, SEE ATTACHED NOTICE OF CANCELLATION FORM (TWO COPIES ATTACHED) FOR AN
EXPLANATION OF THIS RIGHT,

This Agreement is received ay executed ot 4/9/2012,

Customer's signature: PLS Loan Store of Texas, Ine.

i
Customer Name: KRISTY POND // So bot: Ak grap
. “

BY: ITS AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE

Page 4 of 6 O10112v5



att,

ey Notice of Cancellation oo.

PLS Loan Store of Texas, Ine.

Transaction Number: PD216 -26736-7297000iSI

You may cancel this contract, without any penalty or obligation, within three days after the date the contract is
signed.

If you cancel, any payment made by you under this contract will be returned within10 days after the date of
receipt by the seller of your cancellation notice.

To cancel this contract, mail or deliver a signed dated copy of this cancellation notice, or other written notice, to: |
PLS Loan Store of Texas, Inc., Attention: CAB Cancellation, PLS Loan Store of Texas, Inc., 300 North Elizabeth,

4th Floor, Chicago, IL 60607 not later than midnight on 04/12/2012.

I hereby cancel this transaction.

Date Purchaser’s Signature

Page 5 of 6 0101 12v5

on Notice of Cancellation oon

PLS Loan Store of Texas, Inc.

Transaction Number: PD216 -26736-72970001SI

You may cancel this contract, without any penalty or obligation, within three days after the date the contract is
signed,

If you cancel, any payment made by you under this contract will be returned within 10 days after the date of
receipt by the seller of your cancellation notice.

To cancel this contract, mail or deliver a signed dated copy of this cancellation notice, or other written notice, to:
PLS Loan Store of Texas, Inc., Attention: CAB Cancellation, PLS Loan Store of Texas, Inc., 300 North Elizabeth,
4th Floor, Chicago, IL 60607 not later than midnight on 04/12/2012.

I hereby cancel this transaction.

Date Purchaser’s Signature

Page 6 of 6 O1O112V5