

EXHIBIT 4


|

AGREEMENT

Effective
March 3], 1981

Through
March 30, 1984
By and Between

NEWSPAPER AND MAIL
DELIVERERS’ UNION
OF NEW YORK AND VICINITY

and

THE NEWS :
THE NEW YORK TIMES

Through Their Agent

ete

PIC HOU euch ey oy Gs CUCU Cu ereursi ntl fou ft (al fp cates Gel ee fas Cn

Publishers’ Association
of New York City
<r 29

FUNDO000920


The use of any terms in this Agreement

that may connote a masculine gender is -

intended to include all employees, whether
male or female, and such usage is not in-
tended to indicate any bias or discrimination
in connection with employment under this
Agreement.

FM et ce ti A rime

A Page
Absenteeism (4-Fel) ooo sss. 28
Accident Insurance (8-He2) 17

Adjustment Board, Establishment of (16-H) . . 68
Adjustment Board, Responsibility of (4-A-2) .. 23

Advance Sections (3-] Yes eee cee

Agreement on Barganing (17-D) _ .
Airplanes (2-EHL) ce
Airport Pickup, Times (22-C) .

All-Advertising Sections, News (21-B) 95

All Work by All Employees (2-1)...

se vee i8
Advance Sections, Sunday Work on (8-1) .. $1

Annex (2-H-2) 00 Whebesvcnebetutteceerteccas ceptunsees 9
Appeals Board (16) oo. ee ; ., §9
Appeals Board, Compliance With (11)... .. 4
Appeals Board, Quorum (16-F) oo. . 63
Applications for Work (2-J) 0. 0. . 9
Assistant Foremen (Bo . 33
Automation (3-D-4) 14
B
Bad “riving Record (14-0) oc ee. 59
Bene™ts Underwritten (12-D-1) . 43
Bereavement Leave (8-P) oo, a 21
Best Efforts (8-0) oo vate sevens 21
Bidding (4-B) i, 86
Bindery Operations, News (21-C-4) 0B
Bonus, Fork Lift Truck (3-Q) oe. . 2]
Bonus, Tractor-Trailer Driver (2-E-2) . 7
(i)

FUNDO000921


B Page
Bulk Delivery to Publisher (9-B) oa. 39
Bulldog Phase-Out (20-B) oo ee 73
Bundle Schedules (8-4-2) cece eee 12
Busses (2-E-1) 0c ee teeter teteneees 5)
By-Laws and Codes (38-N) 200. ee ee 20
Cc
Canada Point Man (8-C} oo. eerie 13
Canada Points (2-D-2) occ ecertter eres 5
Carlstadt Facility (22-A) .., oe eee 85
Change in Conditions (16-M) 2.0.0.0 co. ee. 66
Chapel Chairman (8) oo. tect ces iees 37
Check-Off of Dues (2-N) occ: id
Clerical Work (20-B) oo ce cee 72
Collections (18°F) ook cece etertetetereren 52
Color Room Clerks, News (21-C-1) 00 76
Combination Delivery by

Tractor-Trailerg (2-E-2) o.. e 7

. Combination Delivery, Methods
And Extent (8-E) occ ccc cet 16
Combined Delivery (on New Routes) (3-F) 16
Combo Kiek, Times (22-C) 0. , 90
Competence (4-A-4) 00 ee ree . 26
Competence Defined (2-T) 0. ccc 9
Competence Required (2-1-3) 0000 ee 10

Conditions and Methods (2-H) oe 8
Conditions, No Change in (16-M) 0 0 0... 66
Conditions of Work (8-As1) oot eres 12
Conditions, Prevailing (2-H-1) oo 8
Cost of Living (18-A-14) oe cee 44
Coverage, Occupation (2-A-l) oe 2
Coverage, Territorial (1) ou... 1
(ii)

ais sarin

D Page
Day or Night Shift (8-D) , 18
Days Of (BJD) oo clcccccscsecetemeece 31
Dealers per Route (3-B) oo! 18
Death Insurance (3-H-2). 0” 17
Death Leave (3-P) 21
Default (by an Employee) (23) 9
Delivery Points (2-D-1) | vcesutststanvessesessassssse ne 5
Development (of New Routes) (3-F) coe a. 16
Direct Delivery, Methods and Extent (3-E) 16
Direct Delivery, Substitution of (3-D-3) 14
Discharge (14) 0 0 58
Dodgers (3-L) rs an 19
Driving Record, Bad (14-C)... Bg
Economic or Business Reasons (8-D-2) . |. 14
Employee Cannot Engage Assistant (2-M) 0... 10
Existing Means or Methods (2E-1) 5
Extras (4-A-2) oo ; 22
F
Ferries (2-E-1) 5
Follow the Work (BD-38) 14
poremen (6) ee 33
ranchise Operation. News C3).
Full Day's Pay (SE . 30
Fund, Pension (13-1) . _ 85
Fund, Welfare (1-H)... _ 58
G
Grievances (15) occ ccccccsscssreccseecc, 59
(ili)

FUNDO000922


H Page
Hardship and Hazard (8-H-1) oon 17
Heaters and Defrosters (8-H-1) 00000... eeccnsepeens 17
Hi-Lo Bonus (8-Q) oo ee, Ncctepesete eres
Hiring Lists (4-4-2) ccc ccccccccsceeceteteceeesss :
Hiring Practices (4) ..ccccccccccsseseeees bveeenes 2
Holidays (7) occ cccccesseccsesssecercrseeceesinepeneens :
Home Delivery (2-G) ooccccecuesrsecsrncen
Honor Boxes (2-A-2) o..ccccccecsstsccee bieecan 3

I
Impartial Chairman (16-E) 0... codueecepensecevatayes 61
Incompetence (4-D) iccccccccccececsevcecssecertaseeenee a
Injuries (8-H-2) 0000... veetces eee eteceaenventees voteeaes ;
Inspectors (2-F) ee iis teteecrsessteennes

J
Joint Standing Committee (16) occ 59
Jurisdiction at Carlstadt (22-A) occ 86
Jury Duty (18-3) oo, veeereves seeederentanenaeneen 56

L
Lay-OFF (8-DeL) occ ccccsccceccccecesssccsevseresevneens 13

Lay-Off, Not for Automation (8-D-5) .0000000.... 15
Lay-Off, Notice Required (4-E) occ 27

Loads per Truck, General (8-A-2) ooo 12

Load per Truck, News (21-C-2) 00 eccccee "9

Lunch Time (5-N) oo ccsesecetsrecrenteeere BY
M

Methods and Extent (of Deliveries) (8-E) 0... 16

Motor Vehicles, Condition of (8-H-1) ....... ives 17

Mutual Guarantees (17-A) ccs 68
(iv)

Fe AR ON Na het gt ama gig any pin ine yey oa we Sos

K
Negotiation by NMDU
With Another Union (2-H-1)
New Agreement, Negotiation of (19)
New Building (2-H-2)
New Mechanical Devices (2-C)

Newspoint (21-D)

Owe t eras

Cr
a rs

News Companies, Genera] (12) ce 41

Night or Day (3-1)... PEO sever asutacassvtansces cues 18°
No Deviation (BM) i nescence. 19
No-Head Sections (B-L) ce ccsceeeceesseee., 18
Non-Compliance CU) vena. 41
No Outside Persons (2M) cc. 10
No Strike, No Lockout CGIG-N) oc BF
6)
Other Employees C2. @ ne 9
Over-the-Road Trucking, General (2-E-2) |... 5

Over-the-Road Trucking,

Interpretation of 2-E-2 (22-D) ......

Over-the-Road Trucking, Times (2°-A) _— 89

Overtime, Computation of (18-D)
Overtime for Groups 3 & 4 (20-C
Overtime. Defined (5-F)
Overtime, Distribution of (5-M)
Overtime Shall Be Worked (5-M)

Paid Leave (13-K)
Paid Leave, Unused (20-A)

seen g

COTM ert E ener ee ee cere ev eee

veteceeee

TONED Rte he cant e teen teases nats

oe ark a rrr

Performance of Non-Covered Work (18-0) o.., 51

Personal Leave (13-K)
Physica) Incapacity (14-B)

(v)

VOOR Sam eee ere ra eeracnne

Fare na bias tteneen

FUNDO000923


Pp Page s Page
Present Practices (8-G) ee eccrine 17 Spirit and Letter (17-C) cece. 70
Priority (4-AeL) cccccssssssssssssssesessesesssuecessssevvneee 21 | Standing Committee (16) cess coun 59
Starting Times (BD) ooccccccscusscssecsceee, 82
R Sunday Sections, News (21-A) occ. 75
ton ¢ Sunday Work (BK) occccccccsnesceccsreeee, 82
Reduction Force (4-E) cee 27 ; ,
Relief Periods, Tames (22.0) sees suaniseasesnustaninaneen 91 i Sunday Work, Advance Sections (5-1) ....... 81
Return Room (2-F) occ veeegnestiaveciveeueeees 8 Suspension; Merger Pay (18)... sce on 71
Routes, Change in (8-D-l) oes 13
Routes, New (8-F) cee cece receenees 16 ; TT
Rules and Laws (8¢N) cccccccssessnen 20 Tallmen (8-A-2) occas seesessasesnin 12
Term of Agreement (19) occ ccc cece 71
s Toeminels as Delivery Points (2-D-1) ......... 5
Sections Printed in Outside Plants (9) ........ 38 Tastee Tein Te Ob) oes i :
Seniority (4-A-D) oc ccsesereerereee 21 Transfer Points (2-E-2) an
Separability Clause, General (17-B) oo... 69 Travel Time (5-L) Dees sesennrsccneeceezeasee aces 6
Separability Clause, | Trucks, Publisher to Furnish (3-K) 8
Hiring Practices (4-A-8) .cceeceeeeee 26 | , - “ 18
Shape/Work Requirements (4-A-2) oo... 22 , U
Shift Foremen (6) oo... eeeeee eres . 38 si
She 8) 30 © Union Shop (BL) sewn 10
Shop Conditions, General (20) . De FB
Shop Conditions, The News (21) bo enetee ceeeeneenas 75 ; v
Shop Conditions, The Times (22) ...00..uu 85 Vacation Checks, Times 2-8) 90
Shortages (13-G) cccccccccccssecsee sessssesssesteeseee 53 Vacations (13-B) . ...... 49
Situation, Absence From (4-F) occu. 29 Vacations for Group I (20-D) 78
Situation, Filling of (4-B) cccccccccsssessen 26 Vending Machines (2-A-2) oc ee 3
Situation Holders, 1981 List of (3-D- 4) bestecey 14
Situation, New (4-B) occ 26 . WwW
Situation, Vacant (4-B) oo ceeeeees 26 Wage Controls (18-A-5) . 48
Situations, as Many as Possible (5-G) ....... 31 Wages (13) 0 ceeececeeeecerstececsece 45
Sixth Shift, Rate for (2-L) ee 10 Wages, Over-the-Scale (18-E) oo... .. 62
Special Points, News (21-E) oo. £2 Wholesaler, Termination of (3- D-3) 14
(vi) (vil)

FUNDO000924
 Case 1:17-cv-06178-RWS

WwW

Wholesalers, General (12) oo.
Work: Day, Night, Week (5) ..ccsc
Work on Sunday (5-K) ...cceee
Work Week, Arrangement of (5-G) ...
Wrap or ‘tie, Manner of (3-B) .........

Z

Zone Routes, News (21-G) oo... ee

(viii)



nbs,

AGREEMENT

This Agreement is made and entered into by
and between the Publishers’ Association of New
York City, as agent of the following individual
Publishers: Times and News, and shall be binding
upon each of the said individual Publishers
or its successor, hereinafter referred to as the
“Publishers,” and upon the Newspaper and Mail
Deliverers’ Union of New York and Vicinity,
having its principal office at 41-18 27th Street,
Long Island City in the City and State of New
York, hereinafter referred to as the “Union.”

SECTION 1

Territorial Coverage

The territory in and for which the terms and
conditions herein contained shall be effective shall
be the Metropolitan Area which, for the purposes,
is defined as the corporate limits of the City of
New York and all territory embraced within a
radius of approximately fifty miles from Colum-
bus Circle in the City of New York bounded
approximately as follows:

To include all of Long Island to Montauk Point;

In Connecticut by Fairfield,
Ridgefield:

In New York by Brewster, Carmel, Cold
Spring, Cornwall and Warwick;

In New Jersey, a line drawn through and in-

Ll

Weston and

FUND0000925


cluding the town of Owens, approximately south-
west to and including Culver’s Lake, Swartswood,
Blairstown, then south to and including Wash-
ington, southeast to and including Hampton,
Clinton, and Allerton, then east to White House,
then southeast to Readington, through Flagtown,
Belle Mead, Princeton, and Cranbury, then east
through Matthews to Brielle.

SECTION 2

Occupation Coverage

2-A. 1. Subject to the provisions hereinafter
set forth, the Publisher recognizes the Union as
the exclusive representative for collective bar-
gaining of all their employees engaged in the
following operations:

Route men;

Recovery men;

Canada men;

Loaders;

Dispatchers;

Checkers;

Mail, relay, plate, and mat chauffeurs when
delivery is made by truck:

Tiers, carriers and floor men;

Automobile operators on routes and relay maj]
and newspaper delivery;

Men writing wrappers, handling, bagging and
tying, by hand or by machine, all papers for
New York City delivery;

Men in charge of routing of mai] at newspaper
2

plants and at railroad, airway, heliport, bus
and ferry terminals;

Men in charge of bundle conveyor outlets;

Men tying rolls;

Men in charge of “El” and subway gangs;

Collectors, except in the case of any Publisher
using a billing system operated through the
auditing department.

Wrapper writing machines installed in the plant
of the Publisher will be manned by a member of
the bargaining unit provided such wrapper writ-
ing is currently performed by a member of the
bargaining unit,

Honor Boxes, Vending Machines

2-A. 2. fOnly routemen employed by the Pub.
lisher shall deliver bundles, which shall be tied
with a wrapper made up by a member of the
bargaining unit, or in the same manner as present
practice, to honor boxes or vending machines in
all areas where there is direct delivery, except
that in the case of a hospital, club comprising one
building, school or other government or municipal
building, in which there is one or more honor
box or vending machine, the delivery shall be made
by the routeman to one designated drop-off point
at such hospital, club, school, government or
municipal building Dealers may fill, empty, and
collect each honor “box or vending machine pro-
vided that collections for the publishers and re
turns are handled according to the current prac.
tice in the territory either by the driver or by
office billing. A dealer is herein defined as any

§

FUNDO000926


person or entity who owns, leases, rents or has
authorization to use property for the purposes of
selling newspapers (i.e, a home delivery carrier

_ having authority from a road commission to place

honor boxes or vending machines on authorized
property, delivery to such honor boxes or vending
machines to be made by routemen employed by
the Publisher}. Each honor box or vending ma-
chine shall be listed on delivery sheets of each
Publisher in the same manner as dealers are
listed. No regular situation holder at the time any
honor box or vending machine js established shal!
be laid off solely as a result of the establishment
of such honor box or vending machine. The Pub-
lisher will furnish the union with a list of its
vending machines and honor boxes, including
their locations within 30 days after the signing of
this agreement. Thereafter the lists will be fur-
nished to the union every 90 days.

res Any Other Operation

‘2-B.° In addition to the foregoing, the terms
and conditions hereof shall cover and the Union
shall be recognized as collective bargaining rep-
resentative of employees engaged in any other
operation, oceupation or branch of work which
is now being performed exclusively by employees
for whom the Union is now the recognized bar-
gaining representative under the supervision of a
foreman or assistant foreman, even though the
same is not expressly hereinabove set forth.

(e-C; ‘Whenever new mechanical devices are in-
troduced to perform or aid in the performance of
any of the operations included in the bargaining

4

unit, such devices shall be operated exclusively by
employees in the bargaining unit.

2-D. 1. The terminals of railroads, bus and air
lines, ferries and heliports located within the City
of New York are recognized as delivery points
for newspaper shipments,

2-D. 2. A Publisher signatory to this Agree-
ment may establish Canada points which shall be
recognized as delivery points for the shipments of
newspapers to areas where for any reason dis-
tribution is interrupted,

2-E, 1. Bus carriers are not to be used to make
deliveries within the limits of the City of New
York; nor is the use of buses, ferries or airplanes
to be substituted for existing means or methods of
delivery to points within the Metropolitan Area
as herein defined, except upon good cause shown
and with the approval of the Joint Standing Com-
mittee and/or Appeals Board, but this shall not
be deemed to curtail the right to make substitu-
tion for a bus‘or railroad now being used.

Over-the-Read Trucking
2-E. 2 (a) Employees may be required to op-
erate tractor-trailer trucks under the terms and
conditions of this article.

(b) The General Foreman shall select
employees to drive tractor-trailer trucks who are
qualified, in order of seniority, in accordance with
Section 4-B,

(c) A reasonable number of employees
shall be given the opportunity on a seniority basis
to qualify for driving tractor-trailer trucks by re-

§

FUNDO000927


ceiving a training course at the expense of the
Publisher.

(d) It is understood and agreed that
the Publisher shall have the right te continue and
expand or decrease the volume of work currently
being handled by delivery in regular trucks from
the plant of the Publisher to an over-the-road
carrier at the city line, This article is intended
only to establish terms and conditions for operat-
ing tractor-trailer trucks directly from the plant
of the Publisher to certain other points. The Pub-
Hshers shall be free to select any runs to operate
in this manner under the terms and conditions of
this article,

Transfer Points

(e) Trailer trucks shall be driven by
employees under the jurisdiction of this contract
from the plant of the Publisher to certain transfer
points to be agreed upon by the parties, except
for those runs specifically dealt with in {e) (1)
below. Such transfer points shall be within the
Metropolitan Area but as near the limits of such
areas as practical. In the event the parties cannot
agree upon a transfer point for any particular
run, the dispute shall be presented to the Im-
partial Chairman for final and binding decision.

(1) Tractor-trailer truck runs
directly from the plant of the Publisher to Albany
or any other city designated by the PubHsher
outside the Metropolitan Area shall be driven by
employees under the jurisdiction of this contract
from the plant of the Publisher through to those
cities.

(f) The Publisher shall have the righ
to establish Publisher-operated combination deliv
ery runs with tractor-trailers on deliveries t,
Points outside the Metropolitan Area, On suel
runs the tractor-trailer truck will be driven by
an employee of one of the Participating papers
from the plant of that paper, where it will be
loaded with that Paper to one of the presently
recognized exchange points at or near the city
line, where it wil] Pick up the loads of the other
papers. The other participating papers wil} deliver
to that exchange Point in regular trucks as at
present,

(g) In the event of a jurisdictional -
dispute with another union resulting from the |
operation of this article, the Publishers may dis- _
continue the runs and deliver to presently recog-
nized exchange points ag at present,

(h) A Publisher may at any time in-
crease, decrease, or discontinue any over-the-road
trucking and employ railroad, aircraft, or any
other form of transportation Provided for by this
contract to the extent that such forms of trans-
portation may now be employed.

No Lay Of
(i) No regular situation holder at the
time any trailer-truck run is established shall be
laid off solely as a result of the establishment of
the run.
(j) For any shift on which an em-
Ployee drives a tractor-trailer on a run, he shall
receive a bonus of an additional two dollars and
twenty-five cents ($2.25),

7

FUNDO000928


9-F, Where inspectors or employees in the Re-
turn Department of any Publisher are or become
members of the Union, the Publisher in whose
employ such inspectors or Return Department
employees are or may be shall not enter into any
contract with any other union which will require
such inspectors or Return Department employees
to join such other union or to give up membership
in this Union as a condition to the continuance of
their employment.

2-G. Where a Publisher distributes through
branches to his own home delivery service, the
bundles for the individual carrier boys shali be
tied by employees in the bargaining unit, present
practice, however, excepted.

Prevailing Conditions

2-H, 1, Conditions and methods of operation
now prevailing in the respective mailrooms of the
Publishers shall not be disturbed insofar as they
affect the jurisdiction of the several unions oper-
ating in the mailrooms. The Union, however, shall
try to negotiate agreements with any other union
operating in the mailrooms which will result in
the elimination of duplication of work and in the
setting up of a procedure for the disposition of
any jurisdictional conflicts which may arise in
the future. In the event such negotiations do not
result in agreements within thirty (30) days from
the effective date hereof, then this Union shall on
its part submit the entire matter to arbitration in
aceordance with the rules of the American Arbi-
tration Association and shall be bound by the

8

Tt to oe

results of such arbitration, provided such other
unjon_gr unions agree to such an arbitration,
(2-H. 2.) When full operations commence at an
annex oF a new or additional building owned or
Operated by a Publisher signatory to this Agree-
ment, within the territory covered by this Agree.
ment, the jurisdiction of the Union in such
building shall be as defined herein, and in 2-A
and 2-B. of this Agreement. |

2-I, Employees may be required by their em-
ployer to perform any of the operations herein-
before specified, but no employee who is or has
been performing satisfactorily the particular work
assigned to him shall be discharged because of his
inability to perform some other operation and no
employee shall be refused employment for the
performance of any operation as to which there
18 & Vacancy and for the doing of which he fs
qualified solely because he is not qualified to per.
form some other operation. .

Applications for Work
2-J. Any employee shall be entitled to
for work in the performance of the several ore
tions set forth in this section of the office or plant
of any of the Publishers parties hereto. Any em-
ployee who shall be in default with respect to
turning over to any Publisher funds collected
by him for or on behalf of such Publisher shall
be deprived of the right herein created until

restitution shall have been made by'¢ : :
employee, y the defaulting

2-K, Any employee who js in the employ of any
9

FUNDO000929


Publisher in any capacity other than in the per-

formance of any of the operations set forth in
this section, except as foreman or assistant fore-
man, shall not be permitted to perform any of
uch operations.

such oP Union Shop

2-L. 1, This is a Union shop contract providing
and intending to provide the maximum Union
security permissible under the Labor Management
Relations Act, 1947, as amended to the extent
embodied in Section 17 of this agreement.

9-L. 2. All men now employed as regular
situation holders shall remain members of the
Union, and all men hereafter employed as regular
situation holders shall acquire and maintain Union
membership status no later than thirty (80) days
after they attain regular situation holder status.

Work on Sixth Shift

-L. 3. All men employed or to be employed to
an the requirements of the Publisher shall be
competent and able to perform the particular
operation for which they are required and be able
to work at straight-time rates. If a Publisher re-
quires his regular employees to work in excess of
a fifth shift, overtime at the ate of time and
one-half shall be paid for the fu": shift.

2-M. No employee shall en;.age any person to
aid him in the performance ot the work assigned
to him by his employer. .

‘<> Dues Check-Off

: oa, ae
g-N. 1. Upon receipt of a signed authorization

the Publisher shall deduct from the pay check of
10

all regular situation holders, including Group 1
men, the dues payable by each said regular situa-
tion holder in the Union as per a schedule sub-
mitted in writing by the Union during the period
provided for in said authorization. Deductions
shall be made from the second pay check of the
employee in each month or if the employee is then
on vacation from his next pay check. Such deduc-
tions shall be remitted to the Secretary-Treasurer
of the Union not later than thirty (80) days
thereafter. The Publisher shall furnish the
Secretary-Treasurer of the Union with a monthly
record of those from whom deductions have been
made and the amount of said deductions. The
Union agrees to save the Publisher harmless from
any action which may be brought against it by
reason of these check-off deductions, and the
Union further agrees to notify the Publisher
thirty (30) days in advance of any Union-
“approved change in such schedule of deduction of
ues,

2-N. 2. It is agreed that this provision is sub-
ject to Section 302 of the Labor Management Re-
lations Act, 1947, and is subject to any amend-
ment necessary for full conformity therewith. _

2:N. 3. Agency Fee Check-Of—~Should the Un-
ion adopt constitution or by-law provisions for an
agency or service fee for non-members, the Pub-
lisher, upon receipt of a signed authorization,
shal] deduct from the paycheck of al] non-member
extras and casuals, and remit to the Union the
fee payable by each employee as per a schedule
submitted, in writing, by the Union during the
period provided for in said authorization,

li

FUNDO000930


The schedule shall provide for a flat amount
payable for each shift worked. In no event shall
the amount payable per shift exceed 5% of the
monthly dues payable’ by regular situation

holders.
SECTION 3

Conditions of Work

3-A, 1. Each Publisher shall continue in effect
the schedules shown in the last notice of. such
schedules to the Union for the duration of this
contract indicating the maximum number of pages
and papers that can be included in a single load or
bundle, which maximum has been determined in
accordance with the operating conditions prevail-
ing at the particular plant and varies with the
size and weight of newspapers, but which in no
event may exceed forty-six (46) pounds.

3-A, 2. Each Publisher shall, immediately after
the effective date hereof, publish a schedule show-
ing the maximum number of loads or bundles
which can be placed on moving tables or similar
apparatus and on automobile trucks of vari :us
sizes and which employees may be asked to cry
at any one time and the conditions under which
tailmen are to be employed on automobile trucks.

8-A. 3, Copies of the schedules shall be furnish-
ed to the Union and permanently posted in the
plant at places accessible to the employees affected.

8-A. 4, If the Union believes such schedules or
any part thereof are unduly burdensome it may
submit its complaint in accordance with Section
16 hereof. If the Publisher believes that news-
paper operational conditions warrant it it may

12

Fe RNC ME OF MU INI Olan yng MN MpEtl Sernrmyrrpin meses WENGE

l

i

|

submit its proposed changes in accordance with
the arbitration provisions hereof.

Manner of Wrap or Tie

8-B, Each Publisher shall have the right te de-
termine the manner in which his newspapers are
to be wrapped or tied, the places at which route-
men are to receive newspapers, and the number
of dealers to be served on the several respective
routes. The Union may, however, make complaint
that any specific practice is unduly burdensome
and that any particular route is unduly difficult to
serve in the manner directed by the Publisher;
and such complaint, if not satisfactorily adjusted,
may be submitted to the Joint Standing Commit-
tee and/or Appeals Board.

3-C; Canada point men shall at their respective
points personally supply all dealers and newsboys.

Economic or Business Reasons
3-D. 1. The right of the Publisher at any time
to lay off men for economic or business reasons is.
hereby recognized. Each Publisher shall have the
right from time to time to increase or reduce the
number of routes, carriers or deliveries, and to

_ combine, amalgamate, condense, alter, discontinue

or otherwise rearrange routes or deliveries as
such Publisher may find necessary or desirable,
provided, however, that if any such change results
in the layoff of any employee then employed by
the Publisher as a regular situation holder the
layoff may be reviewed by the Joint Standing
Committee and/or Appeals Board to ascertain
whether it was for economic or business reasons.

18

FUNDO000931


a. “oo foe, on whoo. 2 ¢
. toe # ae ‘ae . . 5 * *, eI .
gt he AA ert al 8 8 Bolg EA EN FA thd ARS pO tal Le PIP AON a hast ty, 2

8-D. 2. The words “economic or business rea-
sons” are used herein in their usual and ordinary |
sense and their meaning shall not be confined by
any claim of prior practice or interpretation to
any particular economic or business reasons, but
they are meant to include all reasons of an eco-
nomic or business character.

8-D. 3. Should a Publisher terminate the de-
livery by a wholesaler or news company and use
a direct delivery in place thereof, then the Pub-
lisher shall give employment to those regular sit-
uation holders laid off by the wholesaler or news
company deprived of such delivery. This provision
shall in no way Hmit the Publisher’s right to lay
off pursuant to Section 3-D, provided, however,
that no lay-off action shall be instituted until
fifteen (15) working days after employment is
given to those regular situation holders laid off
by the company deprived of such delivery. This
section shall in no way modify or limit any of the
provisions of this contract relating to methods and
extent of direct delivery and combined delivery.

Automation

8-D. 4. The Association shall furnish the Union
in writing a Hst of the regular situation holders
employed by each publisher as of May 1, 1981.
No employee so listed shall be laid off during the
term of this Agreement because of the installa-
tion and use in any plant or plants of any pub-
lisher of any automated process or automated
system after May 1, 1965, Such automated proc-
ess or automated system shall be construed to

i4

“ot wet eee mee Pee ee ° .
. te RL OS ta Mate Tae ot aye wm yee
. paar

include, among other such automated processes or
automated systems, conveyor belts, wire-tying
machines and the like within the jurisdiction of
the Union and satellite or other transmission
devices necessary for the production of news-
paper at another plant as a substitute for the
distribution of the publisher’s newspaper from
the publisher’s present plant.

3-D. 5. In the event of a determination duly
made that the installation and use of any such
automated process or automated system in any
plant or plants of a Publisher has created an
excess of regular situations, affecting the regular
Situation holders on the above mentioned list
(which determination shall be made within two
weeks of the installation and use of such auto-
mated process or automated system), the least
senior regular situation holders, on such list to
the extent of such excess, shall remain employed
as regular situation holders, but their regular
situations shall be bid for by the remaining regu-
lar situation holders in the manner provided for
in Section 4-B of this Agreement. As vacancies
occur in regular situations, the aforesaid excess
regular situation holders shall bid and the re-
maining regular situation holders shall be en-
titled to bid for regular situations in the manner
provided for in Section 4-B, Pending the award
of an available regular situation to an excess
regular situation holder, and within two weeks.
after his regular situation was declared excess by
reason of the installation and use of an auto-
mated process or automated system, he shall be
assigned a regular starting time and regular days

15

FUNDO000932



off which, however, shall not by reason thereof
be deemed to create a new regular situation,

3-D. 6, Nothing in this section shall be con-
strued to affect the obligation of any Publisher
under Section 5-G or any other provisions of this
Agreement to maintain as many regular situa-
tions as possible, subject to the terms of Sections
3-D. 1 and 16 of this Agreement, and other per-
tinent provisions thereof, nor the obligation or
rights of any Publisher or of the Union with
respect to the layoff of any regular situation
holder not on such Hst, nor to require a pub-
lisher te hire a new regular situation holder for
any situation which may become excess as a
result of the installation and use of such auto-
mated processes or automated systems.

Methods and Extent

Ka) Methods and extent of direct delivery and
combined delivery through wholesalers or news
companies as they exist within the Metropolitan
Area at the time of the effective date hereof are
to be continued, and no change can be made ex-
cept on application to and with the approval of
the Joint Standing Committee and/or Appeals
Board.

8-F. In the development of new sections or new
routes within the Metropolitan Area, the Pub-
lisher shall be free to use a direct or a combined
delivery through wholesalers or news companies
as it may see fit and it may from time to
time change from one form to another as it
may find desirable.

16

3-G. Present practices with respect to the re-
ceipt by wholesalers and news companies of the
newspapers of the Publisher shall continue un-
altered, subject, however, to being changed in any
particular respect on good cause shown and with
the approval of the Joint Standing Committee
and/or Appeals Board.

8-H. 1. Employees in the performance of their
duties shall not be exposed to undue hardship or |
hazard or asked to perform excessive work tasks.
Rolling tables and similar apparatus shall not be
overloaded; all motor vehicles shall be maintained
in safe working condition; and measures shall
be taken, insofar as practicable, to protect em-
ployees against exposure when weather conditions
are adverse. Within thirty (30) days of the effec-
tive date of this agreement all motor vehicles

-Shail be equipped with heaters and defrosters

which shall be maintained in good working con-
dition at all times. The Union may at any time
make complaint that this provision is not being
complied with at any plant, and if the complaint
is not satisfactorily adjusted, it shall be sub-

- mitted to the Joint Standing Committee and/or

the Appeals Board.

8-H. 2. 4e Publisher will provide Accidental
Death and ijismemberment Insurance coverage in
the amoun of $20,000, $50,000 beginning January
1, 1982, f.r employees on motor vehicles or on
routes away from the plant while in the empley
of the Publisher for damages arising out of
injuries or death resulting from assaults or
other criminal conduct.

17

FUNDO000933


Day or Night Shift
8-1, Each Publisher shall have the right to
operate either a day or night shift, or both, as
such Publisher may find necessary in the produc-
tion, handling and distribution of any and all

sections of such Publisher’s newspaper, and each |

Publisher shall pay for such work at the scale of
wages fixed by this ‘agreement for such work and
for the respective shift during which the same
is performed.

$-J. Where the handling of advance sections
entails the creation of overtime, the Union and
the particular Publisher involved shall make every
effort to eliminate such overtime by having such
work performed by newly created regular situa-
tion holders in so far as that may be practicable,

but this provision is not to be construed as an

obligation upon any Publisher to have the delivery
and distribution of advance sections handled by
employees working less than full time, nor an
obligation to pay for such handling and distribu-
tion at extra rates when such work is being per-
formed during regular working hours,

8-K. The Publisher shall furnish all trucks or
other delivery equipment, and no Publisher shall
enter into any agreement with any employee in
the employ of such Publisher or any other Pub-
lisher for the use in the Publisher’s business of
any truck, automobile or other delivery equipment
which such employee may own, lease, or control.
However, existing arrangements for the use of
trucks, automobiles or other delivery equipment
owned by employees in the employ of the Pub-

18

/

lishers are to continue and may be terminated
only by mutual agreement or when a truck, auto-
mobile, or other piece of delivery equipment no
longer is fit for use. The Publisher, however, at
any time shall have the option, to be exercised
upon sixty (60) days’ notice in writing, to pur-
chase a truck, automobile, or other piece of de-
livery equipment owned by an employee in the
employ of such Publisher at its then fair value.
This provision to purchase shall not be invoked
so as to discriminate against the employee from
whom the purchase is made. Charges of dis-
crimination arising under this provision are appro-
priate matters for review by the Joint Standing
Committee and/or Appeals Board hereinafter
provided.

jane Dodgers
8-L, All advertising and promotional matter-of |
pack. Publishes publications yéxcept such adver-
tising and -prométionat-mafter as {is to be attached
by paste, which work falls within the work of bill

sposting;jshall be handled, distributed or disposed

of as the Publisher may directy-under the provi-
sions of this contract. All advertising or promo-
tional matter which does n:t advertise or promote

_ the Publisher’s own publication, or which consists

of advertising not carrie; in regular editions or
which does not carry the name of the Publisher’s
own publication, shall be tied, handled and de-

livered by an“extra crew, L

Ss
3-M. The Union shall not contract for any of
its members nor knowingly allow any of its meme«
bers to contract with any person publishing within

19

FUNDO000934


the City of New York for the performance of any
of the operations set forth in Section 2 hereof
at a wage rate lower than herein fixed for such
operation or upon any other terms or conditions
more favorable than the terms and conditions
herein contained without at the same time per-
mitting any of the Publishers, parties hereto, at

any time thereafter on written notice to the Union.

to make effective in his own plant such lower wage
rate or any or all of such other more favorable
terms or conditions. Nothing herein contained,
however, shall be deemed to prevent the Pub-
lisher and the Union, at the special request of any
person publishing within the City of New York,
mutually to agree in writing to the institution in
such person’s plant of wage rates or other terms
and conditions differing from those herein pro-
vided for without obligating the Union to grant
similar conditions elsewhere and if the Publisher
and the Union cannot reach an agreement with re-
spect to such request, the matter may be sub-
mitted to the Joint Standing Committee and/or
Appeals Board which, upon good cause shown,
shall have the power to grant such request in
whole or in part and upon such terms as it may
see fit,

8-N. Neither the Publisher nor the Union shall
be bound by any provision of the articles of asso-
ciation, constitution, charter, by-laws, codes, laws,
regulations, resolutions or rules of any character
which any of them may respectively adopt to the
extent that the same or any part of the same
may be in conflict with the provisions hereof, Each
party, however, shall recognize the right of the

20

others respectively to adopt such rudes and regu-
lations of any character not in conflict with the
provisions hereof which may be deemed necessary
or proper for the management of its own affairs.

Best Efforts

8-0. The Union shall use its best efforts collec-
tively and individually to promote the business
and interests of the several Publishers with the
retail outlets, and with the general public.

8-P. In the event of death in the immediate
family of a regular situation holder or Group I
Extra, such regular situation holder or Group J
Extra shall be granted three (3) days’ leave with-
out loss of pay, provided such three (3) days fall
within the regular situation holder’s regularly
scheduled work-week. For the purpose of this
paragraph, immediate family shall include spouse,
parents, children or brother or sister, mother-
in-law, father-in-law, sister-in-law, brother-in-
law, grandmother, grandfather, grandchildren,
step children, step parents and legal dependents
as defined by the Internal Revenue “ode and
Regulations.

8-Q. For any shift on which an e-aployee is
assigned by a foreman to inelude ainong other
duties the operation of a hi-lo fork lift truck {not
including any type walk truck) a bonus of an
additional 25 cents shall be paid.

SECTION 4

Hiring Practices — Seniority
4-A. 1, (a) As of the effective date, hereof, all

21

FUNDO000935
 {



employees, including foremen and assistant fore-

‘men, holding regular situations with each news.-

paper signatory hereto shall be arranged on

seniority and priority lists in accordance with
their length of service in such capacity with said

, hewspaper. The seniority list shall be used to
: determine the order in which regular situation
{_ holders may be laid off.

(b) Otherwise seniority is herein de-
fined as length of service based on regularity
and continuity of service and shall be used to de-
termine the order in which employees in the extra
categories are to be hired. Priority, sometimes
called promotional priority, is herein defined gs

the order in which employees are to be promoted

and is to be used to determine which employees
may lay claim to a newly created or vacant regu.
ler situation.

4-A. 2. (a) All persons not on the list of regu-
lar situation holders as hereinbefore defined shall
be known as extras and shall be hired for extra
work in accordance with the following rules and
sequences:

(b) The order of hiring by groups for
each Publisher shall be:

Group 1. Unemployed Extras—All persons listed
in Group 1 as of March 31, 1965 (ex-
cept those holding regular situations
elsewhere in the industry) and former
regular situation holders in the indus
try who have lost such regular situa-
tions through merger, consolidation, or
permanent suspension of a newspaper

22

aa Aaa te ee eer ee ern

eo a eee

{

5 A

or company in the industry as herein
defined; or whose application for Hsting
in this group is approved by the Ad-
justment Board by reason of Joss
of such regular situation because of
illness, physical incapacity or for other
such good and sufficient cause.

Group 2. Industry Extras — Regular situation
holders and Group I extras elsewhere
in the industry in industry-wide sen-
jority order.

Group 8. Regular Extras—Steady shapers listed
on the Publisher’s list in Group 8 as
of March 31, 1965; thereafter, men who
signify their intention to and do shape
steadily.

Group 4. Casuals—Men who are not connected
with the industry but who wish to shape
a delivery department from time to
time.

{c) For purposes of promotion, men,
if competent, shall be given vacant regular situa-
tions from the groups in the following order:

1. Group 1—Unemployed Extras.

2. Group 8—Regular Extras.

(d) The order of hiring extras as of
the effective date of this Agreement shall be in
accordance with the most recently dated Hiring
Lists published by the Adjustment Board.

(e) All extras listed in Group 1 and 3
must shape six (6) shifts per week or work five
(5) shifts per week, in order to retain such list-
ing. Each extra shall receive credit for working

23

FUNDO000936


or for shaping for no more than one (1) shift in
any twenty-four (24) hour period and only if he
is present at the time of the hiring for each shift.
Failure to work at a shape where men of the same
group with less priority obtain work shall consti-
tute failure to shape, except where competency is
a factor. Men listed in Groups 1 and 8 who are
removed from such listing for failure to meet the
shape requirements shall be prohibited from re-
applying for such listing for a period of six (6)
months. Casuals listed in Group 4 must work at
least once for the Publisher during any four (4)
consecutive fiscal weeks. Failure to work or shape
by reason of the exceptions provided in Section
4-F hereof, or absence due to a paid vacation or
holiday shall not result in delisting.

(f) If two or more men tie as to the
date for listing, the tie shall be broken by the
Adjustment Board.

(zg) The Adjustment Board shall con-
tinue to process applications for listing in Groups
j and 3 and decide all disputes during the term
of this agreement. Only the Adjustment Board
shall have the authority and the responsibility of
adding to, deleting from, or changing the lists.
Each office shall work from its last Hist as pub-
lished by the Board; and if a foreman needs more
men than are available on such lst, he may
engage such men as he may be able to obtain.
Such men, as may seek listing in Groups 1 and 8,
shall be required to fill out application forms
which the foreman shall transmit immediately to
the Adjustment Board. .

24

(h) No person may be listed in Groups
1 or 3 in more than one (1) newspaper, except for
such Group 1 double listings as were permitted
in the Agreement effective November 1, 1953.

(i) The word “industry” as used here-
in shall encompass all companies employing per-
sons engaged in the categories contained in
Section 2 hereof by any Publisher, newspaper dis-
tributor or wholesaler, or magazine distributor
or wholesaler in the Metropolitan Area defined
here in Section 1.

(j) A situation holder in the industry
shall have the right to apply for Group 1 listing
with a signatory Publisher subject to the follow-
ing Hmitations:

(1) Such situation holder must have
held continuously such situation for a period of at

least five (5) years prior to the date of making
application for the transfer.

(2) The number of applications which
may be approved for transfer to any single sig-
natory Publisher shall not exceed two per cent
(2%) of the total number of situations in the
delivery room of said Publisher as of January Ist
of the year in which application for the transfer
is made.

(8) Transfers of regular situation
holders from non-signatory employers to Group 1
listing with a signatory Publisher shall not exceed
one third (4) of the maximum allowance of two
per cent (2%) in any one calendar year. Such
transfers from signatory Publishers shall not

25

FUNDO000937
 Role EP



exceed two thirds (34) of such maximum allow-
ance in any one calendar year.

4-A, 8. No man may hold a regular situation
in more than one (1) shop.

4-A. 4, No man shall be employed or promoted
unless he is qualified and competent for the work
or the job in question.

4-A. & Should the application of the foregoing
procedure for hiring and promotion be in conflict
with any order, decree, or judgment directed
against any signatory Publisher or the Union by
the National Labor Relations Board or any Court
of competent jurisdiction the procedure shall be
changed to conform with such order, judgment, or
decree, with respect to the parties against whom
such order, judgment, or decree shall run and for
the effective term thereof solely.

Vacant Situations
4-B. In the event a regular situation becomes
vacant or jis newly created, it shall be filled imme-
diately in accord with Section 4-A. 2. (c) of this

agreement but on a temporary basis. It shall be .

filled permanently on the basis of qualification

and competence from among the regular situation

holders In accord with their senjority standing;
provided, however, that when any such vacancy
occurs or a new regular situation is created, it
shall be posted by the Publisher within one (1)
week and for four (4) weeks thereafter and shall
be filled immediately at the end of that four (4)
week period. Such job and the subsequent vacan-
cies not in excess of five created by filling it shall

26

be filled by regular situation holders provided
that the last such subsequent vacancy shall be
filled only by a relayman, relief man, bulldog
routeman or floorman. The last vacancy thus
created shall be filled by the employee moved up
in accord with Section 4-A. 2. (c) as aforesaid.

4-C. If any unemployed extra is offered a situa-
tion in accordance with the above provisions for
which he is qualified and competent and refuses to
accept the same, he is to be placed at the top of
the Group 3 regular extra list. If a regular extra
is offered a situation in accordance with the above
provisions for which he is qualified and competent
and refuses to accept the same, he shall be placed
at the end of the Group 3 regular extra list. A
regular situation holder, however, may refuse a
situation offered in accordance with the above
provisions without losing his seniority standing
on either the promotional priority NHst or for
purposes of layoff.

4-D. If a regular situation holder or an extra
accept a new situation in aecordance with the
preceding provision and then be found te be un-
qualified for the work of such new situation, he
shall be placed in the first vacancy for which he
is qualified and competent which occurs in the
course of filling the situation just vacated by him,
and he shall be placed at the bottom of the pro-
motional priority Hst,- but he shall retain his
former seniority position for purposes of layoff.

Procedure for Lay-Off

4-E. In the event of a reduction in the number
of regular situations, the layoff shall be in reverse

27

FUNDO000938
 >. gee



order of seniority standing, and the employees so
laid off because of such reduction shall be placed
at the head of the unemployed extra list taking
places thereon in accordance with their seniority
standing. There shall be no layoff except on two
(2) weeks’ notice to the Union and to the em-
ployee affected.

4-F, 1. (a) Commencing February 1, 1982 an
employee holding a regular situation who is ab-
sent from work in such regular situation for a
continuous period of ninety (90) regular working
days or more, or who is absent from work in such
repular situation for a period aggregating more
than one hundred and twenty (120) working days
during a calendar year shall be considered to have
vacated his regular situation subject to Subsec-
tion (c) hereof. This provision, however, shall
not apply, nor shall seniority be lost by any em-
ployee because of absence due to any of the fol-
lowing reasons, provided notice in writing has
been given to the Publisher:

1. Illness, disability or partial incapacitation
by reason of advanced age, during which
time the man has no employment elsewhere;
or

2. Service in the Armed Forces of the United
States; or

3. Work performed in behalf of the Union; or
4, A leave of absence from the industry.

(b) Employees may request, from the employer,
a leave of absence from the industry. Consent

28

to such a leave shall not be unreasonably with-
held by the Employer. Such leaves may be ex-
tended by agreement of the Employer and em-
ployee with the consent of the Union. Consent to
such extension shall not be unreasonably withheld.

(c) In the event an employee has been absent
for the periods set forth in paragraph (a) hereof,
the Employer shall send a certified letter to the
employee’s last known address with a copy to
the Union. The letter shall state that the em-
ployee’s situation shall be deemed vacant thirty
days from the date of mailing unless an explana-
tion for the absence is received.

4-F, 2, Employees absent for the foregoing
reasons, shall, upon return to work, be restored
to their regular positions on the regular situation
holders list with the same promotional priority
and seniority standing held by them prior to such
absence. .

4-G. The Lists herein provided for shall be
kept permanently posted within each plant and in
garages, and copies thereof, together with any
changes therein from time to time, shall be fur-
nished by the Adjustment Board.

4-H. Any question which may arise with re-
spect to the qualifications or competency of
employees or otherwise with respect to the inter-
pretation or application of these provisions shall,
if not satisfactorily adjusted between the Union
and the particular Publisher involved, be sub-
mitted to the Joint Standing Committee and/or
Appeals Board.

29

FUNDOO000939


SECTION 5

Shifts and Regular Working Time

6-A. A regular day’s work shall consist of 7
hours and 54 minutes or less consecutively be-
tween the period of 7:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m., which
period shall be known as the day shift.

§-B. A regular night’s work shall consist of
seven (7) or fewer consecutive hours of work on
short nights and eight (8) or fewer consecutive
hours of work on one long night between the
period of 6:00 p.m. and 10:00 am. A regular
night’s work on Saturday shall consist of seven
and one-half (74%) or fewer consecutive hours of
work when the period shall begin at 4:00 p.m.
These periods shall be known as the night shift.

5-C, A regular work week for employees work-
ing during day shifts shall consist of no more
than 8915 hours per week, exclusive of overtime,
divided over not more than a five-day period.

§-D. A regular work week for employees work-
ing during night shifts shall consist of no more
than thirty-six and one-half (8644) hours per
week, exclusive of overtime, divided over three (3)
nights of no more than seven (7) hours each and
one (1) night of no more than eight (8) hours
and Saturday night of no more than seven and
one-half (7%) hours. Each Publisher may de-
termine which is to be the one long night, and no
night off shall be allowed on such long night or
Saturday night except with the consent of the
Publisher involved.

5-E. Employees shall receive a full day’s or a
30

“oe Cl dla Riel Ne SC

full night’s wage, at the rates herein specified,
for each regular day’s work or for each regular
night’s work.

Overtime Defined -

5-F. Work performed in excess of the hours
constituting a regular day’s work or a regular
night’s work, or performed in excess of the five-
day or five-night period over which the employee's
regular work week is distributed, or performed
before or after the hour at which the shift during
which the employee regularly works begins or

_ terminates as herein provided, shall be deemed

overtime and shall be compensated for at the
overtime rates fixed herein.

5-G. In arranging the regular work week for
regular situation holders, the five-day or five
night periods, respectively, shall be staggered and
distributed through the calendar week so that
as many regular situations as possible may be
created and maintained.

5-H. All work performed in the handling, dis-
tribution and delivery of the issue of any evening
newspaper of which the full printing. and circula-
tion does not begin until after 12:01 a.m., Sunday,
shall be paid for at double the week-day regular
and overtime rates.

5-I. Double the week-day regular and overtime
rates shall be paid for any work done on advance
sections on Sundays between the hours of 10:00
a.m. and 6:00 p.m.

Notice of Change
§-J. Thirty (80) days after the signing of this

31

FUNDOO000940
 tenant



Agreement, the Publisher shall furnish the chapel
chairman a list of the starting time and days off
of regular situation holders. If the Publisher
plans to change the time at which a regular situa-
tion holder reports for work or to change days
off, four (4) days’ notice of such changes shall be
given to the man or men involved and to the
chapel chairman. If the Publisher fails to give
four (4) days’ notice, then the time involved in
the change from the time of notice for four (4)
days, shall be paid for at time and one-half.

_ 5-K. Work performed on Sunday between the

hours of 10:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. shall be paid
for at the rate of time and one-half.

5-L. An employee required to finish his job at
a point sufficiently far from where it began to
involve substantial travel time shall be compen-
sated therefor. The parties are directed to nego-
tate such an arrangement and if they are unable
to agree within thirty (30) days after the signing
of this Agreement the matter shall be submitted
to the Joint Standing Committee and/or Appeals
Board.

5-M. Overtime before and after a day or night

shift shall be worked as required by the employer. .

Any charge that vvertime is being required or
distributed unfairiv may be taken to the Joint
Standing Committee and/or Appeals Board for
settlement.
Paid Lunch

5-N. An inside employee on duty within the
plant shall be sent out on paid lunc): during the
period after the end of the second hour from the

82

time he started work and before the end of the
fifth hour from the time he started work. In the
event an inside employee on duty within the plant
is ordered by a foreman or assistant foreman to
work through such paid lunch, such employee shall
be paid one-half hour at the rate of time-and-one-
half. Present practice regarding the paid lunch
period shall prevail as to an outside employee on
duty away from the plant.

SECTION 6

Foremen

6-A. 1. Authority and control over all em-
ployees shall be vested exclusively in the office
through its representative, the foreman, who shall
be a member of the Union. In the absence of the
foreman, the assistant foreman-in-charge shall so
function,

6-A. 2. Foremen or assistant foremen shall not
give orders or exercise authority contrary to con-
tract provisions or the law. The Union shall not
discipline the foremen or assistant foremen for
carrying out the instructions of the Publisher
or his representatives in accordance with this
agreement.

6-B. Each Publisher shall have the right to-
appoint as many foremen and assistant foremen
as he may see fit. and shall have the right of
removal. The terms of a foreman’s or assistant
foreman’s employment, including hours, wages
and other conditions of work, shall be a matter of
agreement between the Publisher and such fore-

338

FUNDO000941
 + wy.

"tel



man or assistant foreman, except that no foreman
or assistant foreman is to be permitted to perform
any of the operations specified in Section 2 hereof
during any time in excess of the hours constitut.
ing a regular day’s work or a regular night's
work, as defined herein, nor during any part of a
calendar week aftcr such foreman or assistant
foreman has had five (5) regular days or regular
nights of work in such week.

Shift Foremen

6-C, Whenever a morning newspaper employs
employees on a day shift or an evening newspaper
employs employees on a night shift, such em-
ployees shall be under the supervision of a fore
man or an assistant foreman.

6-D, Whenever a Publisher has more than one
plant there shall be a foreman or assistant fore-
man in each plant.

6-E. Only the foreman or the assistant fore-
man-in-charge shall be empowered to execute the
provisions, terms and conditions hereof pursuant
to the directions of the Publisher, to issue orders,
to hire or to discharge, and no one except-the fore-

man or assistant-in-charge shall have the right, in.

accordance with such directions. to issue orders
and make changes in operatir« procedures.

6-F. Any employee having a complaint to make
with respect to the conduct or orders of a foreman
or an assistant foreman or with respect to alleged
discrimination or other unfair treatment by a4
foreman or assistant foreman, may take up such
complaint with the person duly designated by the

84

i ela le dt te ee a ee ee

Tk Ii ak Ailend -

Publisher for such purpose through the shop
chairman or other Union representative; and if
such complaint is not satisfactorily disposed of,
it may be submitted to the Joint Standing Com-
mittee and/or Appeals Board,

6-G. A Publisher may make complaint that the
Union has improperly imposed penalties upon a
foreman or an assistant foreman for earrying out
the specific orders or instructions of the Publish-
er; and if the complaint be not satisfactorily ad-
justed, the same may be submitted te the Joint
Standing Committee and/or Appeals Board.

SECTION 7

Holidays .
7-A. All regular situation holders who are not
required to work shall receive the following holi-
days, or days observed as such, off with pay:
New Year’s Day, Lincoln's Birthday, Washing-
ton’s Birthday, Memorial Day, Independence

_ Day, Labor Day, Columbus Day, Thanksgiving

Day and Christmas. In the event a regular situa-
tion holder is called upon to work on any of the
named holidays, or days observed as such, he shall
be paid in accordance with Section 7-C hereof.
No holiday payment of any kind shall be made
to an employee who trips, ie, an employee who,
scheduled to work on a holiday shift, does not
report for work and obtains employment else-
where in the industry on the same holiday.

7-B. Holidays shall extend from the beginning
of the night shift on the night before the holiday

35

FUNDO000942


to the end of the day shift of the holiday itself,
Overtime performed before or after a holiday-rate
shift shall be at time and one-half the holiday
rate.

Holiday Rate

7-C. Any employee required to work on any of
the aforementioned holidays or days observed as
such shall receive not less than two (2) days’ pay
for the regular shift worked and thereafter price
and one-half of the holiday rate. There shall be
ho rearrangements of the days or nights consti-
tuting the regular work weeks of employees in
the office or plant of any Publisher within any
calendar week in which a holiday oceurs. Regular
Situation holders not required to work shall re-
ceive a full day’s pay or a full night’s pay, in
accordance as they ordinarily work during the
day or night shift, for every holiday falling on
a day or night of their regular work week, irre-
spective of whether the newspaper on which they
are employed js issued on such holiday or not.
However, nothing in this section shall require
an employer to make holiday payments to an
employee on sick leave as defined in Section
18-B. 2. when such sick leave has been in excess
of two (2) years,

“-D. Extras who have had at least four (4)
days’ work with a PubNsher during each of the
three (3) payroll weeks immediately preceding
the payroll week in which a holiday occurs and
during such week as well shal] receive a full day’s
pay for such holiday irrespective of whether such
Publisher’s newspaper js issued on such holiday
or not.

86

7-E. Work performed by employees on a holi-
day for a Publisher whose newspaper is not
issued on such holiday shall be paid for at double
the regular and overtime rates.

7-F. An employee covered by this Agreement
who is eligible for benefits under the Worker's
Compensation Law, including the Disability Bene-
fits Law, and who, on the same day, is eligible for
holiday pay under this Section 7, will be paid on
such a holiday both the pay provided by this
Section and the benefit payable under the law.

SECTION 8

Chapel Chairman

8-A. The Union may have a chapel chairman
in each office or plant who shall perform his
regular duties as an employee of the particular
Publisher, and who may act on behalf of em-
ployees covered by the contract employed by such
Publisher and who may report toe the Union any
claims, complaints or alleged violations of the
terms and conditions hereof which cannot be
settled satisfactorily with such Publisher through
the foreman or assistant foreman-in-charge.
Chapel chairmen shall not be discriminated
against on account of their activities on behalf
of the Union or the employees provided these
activities do not interfere with the performance
of their duties, but the presentation of -claims
or complaints and the attempt to adjust the same
satisfactorily shall not be deemed such an inter-
ference,

37

FUNDO000943
 . . eo. a . « aeun wae
SR ea ten a ne Sa ew OL ta ed DS Citas 1 OAL ge



8-B. The Chapel Chairman shall have the right
to inspect the circulation reports, and the time
and/or work sheets of persons employed in the
bargaining unit. The Publisher is required to
make available for inspection within forty-eight
(48) hours, upon request, overtime recorded on
daily time sheets for the preceding fiscal week.
In the event that at any time the Chapel Chairman
is refused the right of inspection, he may make
demand therefor in writing, provided, however,
that the Publisher shall not at any time be re-
quired to produce for the inspection of the Chapel
Chairman circulation reports, or time and work
sheets for a period greater than three (8) weeks
prior to the date of such written demand. No
chapel meeting shall be held during working
hours.

8-C. Employees holding the position of Chapel
Chairman will not be discriminated against inso-
far as the distribution of overtime because of
their exercise of the duties and responsibilities of
such office.

SECTION 9

All parts or sections of a newspaper des-
tined for delivery within the Metropolitan Area,
printed in a plant not owned or controlled by the
Publisher of such newspaper shall be delivered
in bulk from the place of printing to the plant
or plants operated by the Publisher? and after
such parts or sections reach the platform or plat-

88

. ° . « . -
#, . 3 an ae » eo, See . ’ ay . Fy 2
Wa no" sleet NET ee ae ee ee ee ee Pe ee re) wv lem 6 A ok nr rere

forms of the plant or plants to which such bulk
delivery is made, they shall then be handled by
employees represented by the Union.

9-B. In the event a Publisher has parts or sec-
tions of his newspaper printed in a plant not
owned or controlled by the Publisher and located
in the Metropolitan Area, as herein defined, such
Publisher shall endeavor to have the bulk delivery
of such parts or sections from the place of print-
ing to the Publisher's plant or plants made by
employees: in the unit, providing doing so does
not involve the Publisher in increased cost or a
jurisdictional conflict with some other union. In
advance of making arrangements for such out-
side printing or renewing existing arrangements,
the Publisher shall notify the Union and give it
an opportunity to procure such bulk deliveries
for employees in the unit.

SECTION 10

Half-Day Boys

10-A. In accordance with and subject to the
provisions herein contained, half-day boys may be
employed who are not members of the Union upon
such terms as may be agreed upon between such
boys and the Publishers,

10-B. A “half-day boy” means an employee of
the Fublisher working within the hours herein-
after specified in aid of and under the direction
of a route man.

10-C, No Publisher of a morning newspaper
may employ any half-day boys.

89

FUNDO000944


10-D. Publishers of afternoon papers may em-
ploy half-day boys to work only between the hours
of three o'clock and eight o’clock jin the after-
noon, except on Saturdays when they may begin
at 12:00 o’clock noon. ' ‘

10-E. No half-day boy may be employed to
draw newspapers directly from a Publisher's
plant.

10-F. Publishers employing half-day boys shall
prepare a list of all such boys now in their em-
ploy and the particular routes or points at which
they are employed, and shall furnish copies of
such lists together with written notice of all sub-
sequent changes therein to the Joint Standing
Committee and/or Appeals Board, the Publishers’
Association, and the Union.

10-G. Except as hereinafter provided, each Pub-
lisher shall be limited to the number of half-day
boys now employed by him, nor shall he increase
such number, nor shall he increase the number
of half-day boys now employed by him on any
given route or at any given point, nor shall he
employ any half-day boys on a route or at any
given point on which none is being employed at
this time,

10-H. In the event of the discontinuance of a
route on which a half-day boy or boys are now
employed, such boy or boys shall be eliminated,
and the positions so vacated shall not be filled, and
the total number of half-day boys permitted to
such Publisher shall be reduced accordingly.

10-I, In the event of the merger or consolida-
tion of routes on any of which a half-day boy

40

or boys are now employed, the disposition of such
boy or boys shall become a matter of negotiation
between the Publisher and the Union, and on
failure to be satisfactorily adjusted shall be sub-
mitted to the Joint Standing Committee and/or
Appeals Board.

10-J. In the event a Publisher who is permitted
to employ half-day boys opens a new route, he
may for good cause shown and with consent of
the Joint Standing Committee and/or Appeals
Board employ a half-day boy on such new route,
even though it may thereby increase the total]
number of such boys which he is permitted to
employ.

SECTION 11

Non-Compliance

11-A. The Publishers’ Association and the Pub-
lishers respectively, shall not jointly or severally,
either directly or indirectly, give any assistance in
the matter of deliveries or distribution to any
Publisher signatory to the terms of this contract
who has fajled 1 comply with a decision, award
or order of the J int Standing Committee and/or
Appeals Board.

11-B. Should the question of such assistance or
the failure to comply be controverted, such issue,
if not satisfactorily adjusted, shall be submitted
to the Joint Standing Committee and/or Appeals
Board .

ar

SECTION 12

Wholesalers and News Companies
12-A. 1, To the extent permitted by law, the

4]

FF ey Na te OY Me I Ug ty Uy EI NEON Oe ee ee me me

FUNDOO000945


Publisher shall not distribute its newspapers or
any of its other publications through any whole-
saler or news company making distribution in any
part of the Metropolitan Area, as herein defined,
unless such wholesaler is under written collective
agreement with the Union or is willing to enter
into written collective agreement as provided for
in this section.

12-A. 2. Should a dispute arise regarding the
application of this section, such dispute, if not
satisfactorily adjusted, shall be submitted to the
Joint Standing Committee and/or Appeals Board.

12-B, If a dispute should arise whether a
wholesaler or news company is an independent
contractor, such dispute, if not satisfactorily ad-
justed, shall be submitted to the Joint Standing
Committee and/or Appeals Board, but in no event
shall a wholesaler or an owner of a news company
be deemed an independent contractor if he de-
livers only one newspaper, though he may be
delivering magazines as well, and such persons
shall be deerned an employee of the Publisher
publishing the particular newspaper, subject to

all of the terms and conditions hereof, present

practices excepted, however.

Present Practices

12-C. Present practices with respect to the re-
ceipt by wholesalers and news companies of the
mewerneanane nf tha Yachlichae ehall santimers un
SRGWSE Pa VerS VL tit LUMISAIET Oiialil CUNLIIME Uli
altered, subject, however, to being changed in any
particular respect on good cause shown and with
the approval of the Joint Standing Committee

and/or Appeals Board.
42

12-D 1. All employees with one year or more of
service as regular situation holders covered by a
collective bargaining agreement between the
Union and any wholesaler oy news company are
entitled io receive, under such agreement, certain
financial benefits in the event they are laid off by
that wholesaler or news company as a result of a
Publisher terminating, modifying or suspending
its delivery to such wholesaler or news company.
In the event a wholesaler or news company fails
to pay said financial benefits within 380 days of
the actual lavoff by said wholesaler or news com-
pany, each Publisher shall pay said benefits (un-
less paid by a successor wholesaler or news
company) subject to the following terms and
conditions:

1. The notice of layoffs is given no later than
60 days following the termination, modification or
suspension of the Publisher’s delivery;

2. Wherever the term “financial benefits” is
used throughout this Section, it shall include only
suspension and merger pay, payments for unused
personal leave days and unused - acation, pay in
lieu of notice of lay off, and per ion and welfare
contribution on such personal le: ve days, vacation
and pay in lieu of notice of lay off, as provided
for in the contract between the Union and the
affected wholesaler or news company.

38. The Publisher’s Uability to any one employee
of a wholesaler or news company shall be limited
to a maximum of:

(a) 40 days vacation
(b) 22 personal leave days

43

FUNDOO000946



(c) 10 days pay in Heu of 2 weeks notice of lay
off (unless Publisher notifies Union 2 weeks prior
to terminating, modifying or suspending delivery).

{d) Pension and welfare contributions on (2),
(b), and (c) above.

(e) 15 days suspension and merger pay.

4. In the event more than one Publisher js in-
volved in the application of this Section, the
liabilities shall be apportioned by the Publishers
So involved.

5. This Section 12-D shall not apply to a
Publisher who ceases doing business.

6. The Publisher shall not be required to pay
the financial benefits already paid to covered
employees by the affected wholesaler or news
company. —

12-D. 2. Nothing contained in this Section shall
prevent a Publisher from requiring a successor
wholesaler or news company to whom it has
transferred delivery to pay the prescribed finan-
cial benefits to those employees laid off by such
transfer, or from making reasonable and ex-
peditious arrangements to require the wholesaler
or news company adversely affected by its deci-
sion to terminate or suspend delivery to make
such payments, provided, however, that such pay-
ments are made fully and promptly.

12-D, 3. In the event a wholesaler or news com-
pany suspends operations or two or more whole-
salers or news companies merge or consolidate,
even though no Publisher has terminated, modi-
fied or suspended its delivery to one or more of

44

ame atlanta ade tated ak eee ee

the wholesalers or news companies, the Publishers
then making deliveries to the successor wholesaler
or news company shall endeavor to have said suc-
cessor make the payments provided for in this
Section 12-D, provided the wholesaler or news
company primarily responsible for said payments
does not make them.

SECTION 18
WAGES, VACATIONS, FUNDS

Wages
18-A 1. Hfective with the day shift on March
81; 1981, wage rates for the performance of the
several operations set forth in Section 2 hereof
shall be as herein provided.

For all regular situation holders, Groups 1 and
2 extras, and for those Group 38 extras who
worked more than, 180 days for one Publisher
in the prior calendar year:

. 7 ; Over.
Hourly Daily Weekly time
Day Rates $12,013 $ 94,91 $474.52 $' .026
Weekly Night Rates
Short Night 13.389 93,66 0.070
Long Night 12.073 96.58 474.77 18,109
Saturday Night 12.967 97,25 19.450
For all other employees.
Over-
Hourly Daily Weekly fime
Day Rates $ 9.791 $ 77.35 $386.72 $14.687

Weekly ‘ight Rates

Short Night 10. at 76.36 16.363
Long Night 9,8 78.68 386.97 14,753
Saturday Night 10. 54 79,23 «15.846

45

ie a a ne oo a

FUNDO000947


13-A. 2. Effective with the day shift on March
81, 1982, wage rates for the performance of the
several operations set forth in Section 2 hereof
shall be as herein provided:

For all regular situation holders, Groups 1 and
2 extras, and those Group 8 extras who worked
more than 180 days for one Publisher in the prior
ealendar year.

oO =
Hourly Daily Weekly ime
Day Rates $12.925 $102.11 $510.52 $19.388
Weekly Night Rates
Short Night 14.409 100.86 21.614
Long Night 12.973 103,78 510.77 19.466
Saturday Night 13.927 104.45 20.891
For all other employees.
, : Over.
Hourly Dally Weekly time
Day Rates $10.575 $ 83.55 $417.72 $15,863
Weekly Night Rates
Short Night 11.794 82.56 17.695
Long Night 10.610 84.88 437,97 15.915
Saturday Night 11.391 85.43 17,087

In addition, an amount of $6.00 per week per
employee in the second year of the contract will
be allocated to a fringe benefit. It is understood
that the dollar amount of any such allocation if
contributed to the Pension or Welfare Fund, or
both, may be converted on March 31, 1982 into a
percentage that reflects the total dollar amount.

13-A. 8. Effective with the day shift on March
SI, 1988, wage rates for the performance of the
several operations set forth in Section 2 hereof
shall be as herein provided:

For all regular situation holders, Groups 1 and
2 extras, and those Group 3 extras who worked

46

Fe mt Le RE REE gatein, seine OF

more than 180 days for one publisher in the prior
calendar year,

SM Re

Over-
Hourly Daily Weekly time
Day Rates $13. B62 $109.50 $547.52 $20.793
Weekly Night Rates :
Short: Ni ht 15.466 308. * 23,199
Long Night 13,898 lil. 8 547.97 20,847
Saturday Night 14,913 412.85 | 22.370
For all other employees,
Over-
Hourly Daily Weekly fime
Day Rates $11,385 $ 89.94 $449.72 $17.078
Weekly Night Rates
Short Night 12.709 88,96 19.064
Long Night 11.410 91,28 449,97 17,315
Saturday Night 12.244 91.83 }- 18.366

18-A. 4. Cost of Living Allowance: On each

anniversary date of the contract, March 81, 1982,

and March 31, 1983, employees covered hereunder
shall receive a cost of living adjustment to the
scheduled wage increases in accordance with the
following formula:

The Bureau of Labor Statistics Consumer Price
Index (C.P.1.-W; 1967=100) for New York City,
hereafter called the Index, shali be used for all
measurements of the change in cost of living.

Effective March 831, 1982, the amount of any
cost of living adjustment shall be the percentage
increase in excess of 6% in the Index for May
1982 over May 1981 (as reported in June each
year) multipled by the day scales and the result-
ant amount shall be added to the day scales.

Effective March 31, 1988, the amount of any
cost of living adjustment shall be the percentage
increase in excess of 6¢¢ in the Index for May

47

EIN AN tare nn AE ON UN Ee

FUNDOO000948



1988 over May 1982 (as reported in June each
year) multiplied by the day scales and the result-
ant amount shall be added to the day scales.

The amount of any cost of living adjustment
shall be included in computing all premiums and
fringes such as pension and welfare contributions,
overtime premium, night shift premium, vacation
payments, holiday payment, death leave pay, paid
leave, ete.

In no event will a decline in the Index cause a
reduction in the scale of wages or in any adjust-
ment thereto. ;

In the event that the Bureau of Labor Statis-
tics shall fail to publish the Index or shall change
its base period, the parties shall meet to discuss

and apply any such new Index and its application

to the cost of living allowance. If the parties are
unable to agree, then the same shall be referred
to arbitration.

Wage Controls

18-A. 5. In the event the Federal Government
establishes a program of wage controls during
the term of this Contract and should such pro-
gram prohibit, nullify or reduce any scheduled
wage increase provided for employees during the
term of this Contract the Union shall have the
right to terminate this contract as of the date
such wage increase is scheduled to become
effective.

Vacations

18-B. 1. Vacations. Employees shall receive
vacations based on work performed in the pre-

48

ceding calendar year in accordance with the
following schedule:

Days of Work Performed Vacation
More Than Fewer Than Days
6 20 l
19 32 2
81 44 3
43 56 4
55 68 5
67 80 6
719 92 vi
91 ~ 104 8
108 ' 116 9
115 128 10
127 140 11
139 152 12
151 164 18
163 176 14
175 188 45
187 200 16
199 212 17
2ii 224 18
223 225 19
224 — 20

13-B. 2. (a) Such vacation credit shall be
earned when an employee is working on a situ-
ation as a regular or extra employee. The spirit
and purpose of this provision is to disallow the
duplication of vacation credits on the same situa-
tion. Days during sick leave shall be included in
the schedule of days worked for which vacations
are allowed. The words “sick leave” as used herein
shall include time lost by reason of any illness or

49

FUNDOO00949


accident subject to the provisions of either the
Workers Compensation Act or the Publishers’—
Newspaper and Mail Deliverers’ Welfare Fund;
and such waiting periods as contained therein shall
be counted as days worked, but in no event shall
such period of disability in excess of thirty
(30) weeks in the case of sickness or fifty-three
(58) weeks in the case of accident, both periods
including the waiting period, be counted as time
worked for the purpose of vacation credits, Time
spent on duty with the National Guard or on Re-
serve Duty shall be included in the days worked
for which vacations are allowed, to a maximum of
two weeks. Holidays shall be included in the days
worked for which vacations are allowed. Days of
vacation are not to be counted as work days. The
vacation schedule shall be arranged at the con-
venience of the employer, but on the basis of
seniority. The days of the vacation period shall be
consecutive. The Union offers, if called upon, to
supply men to the employers to cover the period
for which vacations are allowed, who may be em-
ployed at straight-time rates. Employees receiv-
ing vacations will not be allowed to work during

‘the vacation periods; and an employee who works

during vacation period shall not be entitled to
vacation pay.

{b) In the event of the death of a regular situ-
ation holder or Group 1 employee, his estate shall
be paid in cash for all vacation credits accrued in

_ the previous calendar year in addition to the maxi-

mum vacation pay that he would have received
had he worked the full year in which the death
occurred,

50

13-B. 8. Present practices concerning the split-
ting of vacations shall be continued.

13-B. 4. In no case, except when a holiday falls
during a vacation period, shall an employee re-
ceive more than twenty (20) days’ vacation in a

‘calendar year in any one office. When a holiday

falls within an employee’s vacation period, he
shall be given a day’s pay at straight-time rates
for his holiday. When a regular situation holder
returns from vacation he shall work his regularly
scheduled work week.

18-B. 5. The provisions for vacations establish-
ed herein shall be effective with vacations given
in the calendar year 1981 for work performed in
1980, in the calendar year 1982 for work per-
formed in 1981, in the calendar year 1983 for
work performed in 1982 and in the calendar year
1984 up to the termination date of this Agree-
ment for work performed in 1983.

13-B. 6, A day spent in required attendance at a
hearing of the Worker’s Compensation Board
shall be counted as time worked for the purpose
of vacation credits, provided that the employee -
submits to the foreman a certificate giving proof
of such attendance, and provided further that
there shall be no duplication of vacation credits
as a result of the operation of this paragraph.

18-C. No emplovee employed by any Publisher
in the performance of any work lying outside the
operations set forth in Section 2 hereof performed
under the jurisdiction of a foreman, shall be com-
pensated at less than the hourly wage rates fixed
herein for routemen.

$1

FUNDOO00950
 the



18-D. All overtime shall be compensated at a
rate of one and a half times the regular hourly
rate and shall be computed in five-minute Periods.
“13-E_i~Employees engaged in the net
of any of the operations set forth j in Section 2
hereof foF isher and being compensated
at a rate in excess of the regular rate established
at the time immediately prior to the execution
hereof shall, so long as they « continue employed
at such operation by. such employer, receive com-
pensation at a rate which shall have the same
relation to the regular rate fixed herein as their
present rate of compensation bears to the regular
rate established immediately prior to the execu.-,
tion hereof. Such excess rate shall not be deemed
to be attached to the several positions held by
such employees, but shall be deemed personal to
them.

at any time subsequent to January 20, 1943, for
compensating .the performance of any of the the op-
erations set forth in Section 2 hereof ata rate

> in excess of thé He regular rate fixed herein shall be

subject at all times to the control of the Publisher
involved and may at any time be modified or
abrogated in whole or in part by such Publisher.

Collections and Shortages
13-F. The Publisher who makes collections on a
weekly basis (other than those now billing
through the auditing department) shail have the
option either to employ a special crew of regu-
lar situation holders for such purpose or to have
the routemen on the several routes collect their

52

i ee ee

13-E. 2,Any agreement with any Publisher made

own respective routes, in which latter case each
such routeman shall receive two (2) days’ pay
for such collection.

13-G. The matter of excessive or repeated
shortages may be made the subject of a com-
plaint by the Union; and in the event any such
complaint is not satisfactorily adjusted between
the Union and the Publisher involved, such com-
plaint shall be submitted to the Joint Standing
Committee and/or Appeals Board for investiga-
tion and with the power to grant such relief as
it may deem proper, including an allowance not,
however, to exceed one-half of one per cent of
the total papers handled by the particular em-
ployee complaining of such shortages.

Welfare Fund

18-H. 1. The Publisher agrees that it shall con-
tribute 644% of each employee's rate per shift for
each shift worked by each employee in the bar-
gaining unit to the Publishers '—Newspaper and
Mail Delivers’ Welfare Fund, but not in excess of
five (5) shifts in any payroll week in any one
office for any one employee. In addition to the
above percentage contribution, for each shift
worked by each emp] oyee who is not a regular
situation holder, Group 1 or Group 2 extra, or a
Group 3 extra who works more than 180 days for
one publisher in the prior year, there shall be an
additional contribution to the Publishers’—News-
paper and Mail Deliverers’ Welfare Fund of $6.00
per shift, but not in excess of five (5) shifts in any
one payroll week in any one office for any one
employee, in the first year of this Agreement. In

63

FMT 8 rang ee Fy My eg EN Ng estar ty PE Ee

FUNDOO000951


the second year such additional contribution shall
be increased to $7.00; in the third year, to $8.00.
In addition contributions shall be made when an
employee becomes eligible for worker's compen-
sation benefits. Such payments shall be retroac-
tive to the first day of absence. It is further
agreed that any Publisher delinguent in the con-
tributions to said fund required to be paid under
this or any previous collective bargaining agree-
ment shall pay such delinquent contributions and
shall reimburse the fund for any expense in-

curred by the Trustees in the collection thereof |

through the Joint Standing Committee and/or
Appeals Board or otherwise as the Trustees de-
termine. Such payments shall be made on the
basis of weekly employment and shall be made at
least once a month, unless the Trustees of the
Fund determine that more frequent payments are
necessary in the case of any Contributing
Employer. —

18-H. 2. Any increase in the employee’s contri-
bution above 30¢ per week required by law for
Statutory DBL benefits will be borne by the
employer

18-H. 3 With respect to this Fund, the term
“employee” shall include any individual whose re-
tiremen: was recognized by the Trustees subse-
quent to any date on which his employer com-
menced the payment of contributions in his behalf.

13-H. 4. Payments to this Welfare Fund shall be
permitted and accepted from daily newspaper
Publishers not presently signatory to this Agree-
ment, from other employers of individuals working

54

under provisions substantially the same as those
of this Agreement, and from the Union for its
officers ‘and employees, provided such payments
shall be made on the same basis as herein pro-
vided.
Pension Fund

13-I, 1, The Publisher agrees it shall contribute
8% of each employee’s pay rate per shift
for each shift worked by each employee in the
bargaining unit to the Newspaper and Mail De-
liverers’—Publishers’ Pension Fund, but not in
excess of five (5) shifts in any payroll week in
any one Office for any one employee. In addition
contributions shall be made when an employee be-
comes eligible for worker’s compensation bene~-
fits, Such payments shall be retroactive to
the first day of absence. It is further agreed
that any Publisher delinquent in its contri-
butions to said Fund required to be paid under
this or any previous collective bargaining agree-
ment shall pay such delinquent contributions and
shal] reimburse the Fund for any expense incurred
by the Trustees in the collection thereof through
the Joint Standing Committee and/or Appeals
Board or otherwise as the Trustees determine.
Such payments shall be made on the basis of
weekly employment and shall be made at least
once a month, unless the Trustees of the Fund
determine that more frequent payments are neces-
sary in the case of any Contributing Employer.

13-I. 2. Payments to the Trust Fund herein-
above mentioned shall be permitted from daily
newspaper publishers not presently signatory to
this Agreement, from other employers of indi-

55

FUNDO000952


ne eee et eee ee en

viduals working under provisions substantially
the same as those as set forth herein and, to the
extent that the Trust Agreement may so provide,
from the Union for its officers and employees,
provided, in each case, that such payments shall
be made in the same amounts and on the same
basis as herein set forth.

Jury Service

18-7. A regular situation holder and Group I
extra covered by this Agreement with at least
six (6} months of priority in the shop as a
Group I extra or regular situation holder who is
required to report for jury service on a day when
he normally would have been scheduled to work
shall be paid the difference between the fee
received for such service and a regular shift’s pay
at straight-time rates. Tc become eligible for such
payment the employee mw.st inform his foreman
in writing of the call to jury service within
twenty-four (24) hours of receipt of the official
notification, and then must furnish to the foreman
a statement of jury service from the clerk of
the court.
Paid Leave ,
i8-K. 1. An employee covered by this Agree-
ment shall receive up to ten days of paid leave
for illness or personal reasons based on work per-
formed in the preceding calendar year in accord-
ance with the following schedule (days to be

counted as provided in Section 13-B):

Days of Work Performed Leave
More Than Fewer Than Days
33 76 2

56

}

s

er ee ee

75 118 4
117 160 6
159 202 . 8
201 —_ 10

18-K. 2. During the years 1981 and 1982 and
1983, an employee may elect to accumulate any
or all of his unused leave days. To elect this op-
tion, the employee must notify in writing the
office of the employer by November 1 of each of
the above years that he is accumulating such
leave. Annually, on or before November 1, at the
request of an employee, the office shall provide a
signed statement of paid leave days which have
been accumulated by that employee. Such ac-
cumulated Jeave can be taken at any time during
the term of this Agreement and will be paid at
the then prevailing rate. Accumulated leave not
taken during the term of this Agreement shall be
liquidated and payment, at the prevailing rate,
made within 80 days following the expiration of
the Agreement, unless there is mutual agreement
to continue accumulated leave for a later date. If
leave days are not accumulated, the employee
shall receive, on the pay day of the first pay
period in December of that year, the cash pay-
ment for any such days he has not taken in that
calendar year. The Union recognizes the need for
sufficient manpower for the efficient operation of
the publishers in connection with the use of ac-
cumulated leave time in excess of ten days, The
Union agrees that such accumulated leave shall
not be taken in such a manner as to interfere with
adequate staffing.

57

FUNDOO000953


13-K. 8. Days of paid leave taken or not taken
but paid for during the year or leave accumulated
when taken or paid for under this Section shall

be included in the schedule of days worked for

which vacations and days of paid leave are
allowed and for which welfare and pension con-
tributions are made.

13-K. 4. When a holiday occurs during a period
of paid leave and the employee is entitled to a
holiday payment, the holiday shall not be counted
as a day of paid leave.

13-K. 5. Time spent on duty with the National
Guard or on Reserve Duty, shall be included in
the days worked for which paid leave is allowed,
to a maximum of two (2) weeks.

. SECTION 14

Discharge
14-A,.The right of the Publisher, acting through
a foreman or.an assistant foreman: _any time
to discharge any employee for cau.: is hereby
recognized, The specific causé sHaIT Se stated at
the finie of discharge. Upon demand, the foreman
shall also give the reason for discharge in writing

_ within seventy-two (72) hours. Following the

demand, the discharged employee may, through
his Union representative, make complaint with
respect to his discharge to the Publisher and if
such complaint be not satisfactorily adjusted, it
may be submitted to the Joint Standing Commit-
tee and/or Appeals Board. Pending adjustment

and determination of such cSmplaint the dis-
seexvtmars etna a A

58

ne sf ‘ tye tote a *,. ¢ ‘ rs
fat te ee nt ol Ett ee at at AE eH AE ae RE a a wt IE ete SI
°

if

z
whe Gg

charged employee_need not be kept in employ-
miént by the Publisher.

14-B. Where physical incapacity is the cause

of discharge, the Publisher concerned shall make

every effort to place such discharged employee at
some other operation for which such employee
may be qualified and to that extent the provi-
sions herein contained with respect to priority and
seniority shall be modified.

14-C. Where the cause for discharge is a bad
driving record, the Publisher concerned shall make
every effort. to place the discharged employee at
some other operation not requiring the driving
of an automobile, and to that extent the provi-
sions herein contained with respect to priority
and seniority shall be modified.

SECTION 15

Grievances

Any employee claiming to have been discharged
without just cause or otherwise deprived of or in-
jured with respect to any of the rights conferred ©
upon him hereunder may have such claim ‘taken
up on his behalf with his employer through the
appropriate Union representatives; and in the
event such claim is not satisfactorily adjusted,
the Union may submit the same to the Joint
Standing Committee and/or Appeals Board.

SECTION 16

Joint Standing Committee and Appeals Board
16-A, All grievances, differences and disputes

59

FUNDOO00954


arising out of the interpretation or application of
this Agreement which cannot be settled at the
plant level are to be referred in writing and as
hereinafter provided, to the Joint Standing Com-
mittee and/or the Appeals Board within thirty
(30) days after the grieving party knew, or with
reasonable diligence should have known, of the
existence of the facts or circumstances giving rise
to the grievance. Any grievances, differences, or

disputes not so referred shall be deemed to have
been waived except to the extent that such griev-
ances may be found to be continuing grievances,
in ‘which case only the claims for damages or
other relief, for events occurring more than thirty
(30) days prior to the written grievance shall be
deemed to have been waived.

16-B. The parties hereto hereby create a Joint
Standing Committee. which shall consist of two
(2) members designated by the Union and two (2)
members designated by the Publishers’ Associa-
tion of New York City. Immediately after the
effective date hereof, the parties hereto shall, in
writing, designate their respective members of
the Committee and shall have the right, without
notice, from time to time to change such desig-
nations and/or to designate substitute members.

16-C. The Joint Standing Committee shal] have
full and complete authority, in accordance with
the provisions of this section, and any decision
when reduced to writing and subscribed to by a
majority of the members of the Committee shall
be binding upon the parties hereto and shall be
enforceable as an arbitration award in any court

60

wm ae oe he mare me Te

ee ae ey

of competent jurisdiction, The Joint Standing
Committee shall have no more than two (2) weeks
after the submission of any matter to the Com-
mittee to reach a decision with respect to the

submitted issue and to take action thereon.

16-D. In the event that the Joint Standing
Committee is unable to resolve the issue, or fails
to act within two (2) weeks after submission, the
matter shall then be automatically referred to the
Appeals Board which shall consist of the four (4)
members of the Joint Standing Committee and a
chairman who shall be selected in accordance with
the procedure hereinafter set forth.

16-E. 1. (a) Immediately after each such matter
has been referred to the Appeals Board, the par-
ties shall select a fifth impartial member of the
Appeals Board, who shall serve as Chairman.
The fifth impartial member shall be the first ar-
bitrator selected by random method agreeable to
the parties from the list compiled in accordance
with 16-E. 2. below who is available to hear the
matter within thirty (30) dzeys of his selection.
The Appeals Board so constituted shall hear and
decide the particular matter referred to it in
accordance with the rules and regulations for
arbitration adopted by the Union and the Pub-
lishers’ Association.

(b) If, in a disciplinary suspension or discharge
case, no arbitrator listed in Section 16-E. 1. of the
parties’ Agreement is available to hear the case
within thirty (80) days after his selection, the
Union may elect to select an arbitrator for such
case by requesting a panel of nine (9) arbitrators

61

FUNDO000955


available to hear the matter within thirty (80)
days or less from the American Arbitration Asso-
ciation and proceeding as provided herein. Such
election shall be made by letter delivered to the
Publisher within five (5) days after the date it is
determined that none of the arbitrators listed in
Section 16-E. 1. is available within thirty (80)
days. When the panel of arbitrators is received,
representatives of the Publisher and the Union
shall meet within five (5) days after such receipt
and at such meeting alternatively strike names
from the panel until only one (1) name remains,
who: shall be the arbitrator for the given case.
The first party to strike from the panel shall be
determined by coin flip. Such arbitrator and the
arbitration of the given case shall in all respects,
other than this selection procedure, be governed by
the parties’ Agreement and the Arbitration rules.

16-E. 2. Immediately after the execution of
this Agreement, the parties hereto shall meet to
select fifteen (15) impartial arbitrators to serve
on the Hst called for in paragraph 16-E. 1, and
their names shall be entered on said list in order
of their selection. In the event that the parties
fail to designate the fifteen (15) impartial arbi-
trators within sixty (60) days after the signing
of this Agreement, any or all of such impartial
arbitrators remaining to be designated shall be
selected from separate lists of at least five names
each, supplied by the American Arbitration Asso-
elation for each such arbitrator to be selected, in
accordance with the then controlling AAA rules
and regulations governing such selection. No
name may appear on more than one list.

62

In the event of death or resignation, or if an
arbitrator is incapacitated or otherwise unable or
unwilling to serve, a new arbitrator shall be cho-
sen in his place by mutual agreement or, if the
parties are unable to agree, by the procedures of
16-E. 2. above.

16-E. 3. On June 1, 1982 and again on June 1,
1988, both parties shall have the right to strike
up to five arbitrators from the existing Hst of
fifteen arbitrators in paragraph 16-E. 1. New
arbitrators shall be immediately chosen by mutual
agreement to replace the names eliminated by
both parties. If the parties are unable to agree
on any or all of the replacements, the replace-
ments remaining to be designated shall be selected
following the procedures of paragraph 16-E. 2.
above,

16-F. The chairman and any two other mem-~
bers of the Appeals Board shall constitute a
quorum thereof for all purposes. The absence of
any member or a vacancy on the Board shall not
preclude the Appeals Board from making a deci-
sion and taking action on any matter so long as
such quo1em is present.

16..G. The term of the permanent impartial
chairmen designated under Section 16-M. shall
termina.e upon the expiration of this Agreement.

The Adjustment Board
16-H. In addition to the Joint Standing Com-
mittee and Appeals Board herein created, there
shall be an Adjustment Board .consisting of two
(2) members designated by the Union and two (2)
members designated. by the Publishers’ Assccia-

63

FUNDOO00956


tion of New York City, which shall have exclusive
jurisdiction over any issue arising with regard to
the provisions of Section 4-A of this agreement.
The decisions of a majority of said Adjustment
Board shall be binding upon the parties hereto
and shall be enforceable as an arbitration award
in any court of competent jurisdiction. In the
event the Adjustment Board is unable to reach a
decision, the matter shall be referred to the
Appeals Board in the manner prescribed.

16-I, The Adjustment Board, the Joint Stand-

ing Committee and the Appeals Board may from

time to time make, modify, repeal, supplement and
amend rules governing their respective proce-
dures, and no record need be kept of any proceed-
ing unless the Committee or Boards otherwise
determine pursuant to their own rules.

16-J. Failure of any party involved to appear
before the Adjustment Board, the Joint Standing
Committee or the Appeals Board after written
notice of not less than three (3) days shall not
preclude the Adjustment Board, the Joint Stand-
ing Committee or the Appeals Board from con-
sidering the case and from making a decision
thereon.

16-K. A majority of the Adjustment Board,
Joint Standing Committee and/or Appeals Board
shall have the power to make all appropriate find-
ings, decisions and awards in any and all matters
submitted to it pursuant to the provisions of this
agreement and to take or to direct the taking
of any action which it may deem necessary or
proper to make effective the provisions and the

64

intent hereof and to safeguard the rights of the
parties hereto or other person. The power, as

herein created, shall include, but shall not be

- limited to, the reinstatement of any employee

found to have been improperly discharged or
discriminated against with or without back pay
in such amount as the Committee or Board may
order and with or without the restoration to
prior status, the power to impose damages either
in the form of actual or liquidated damages
against any party hereto found guilty of a viola-
tion of any of the terms, conditions or provisions
of this agreement.

16-L. Neither the chairman nor any member of
the Joint Standing Committee or Adjustment
Board need take an oath of office as arbitrator
or otherwise and the requirements therefore are
hereby expressly waived.

16-M. 1. Immediately after the execution of
this Agreement, the parties hereto shall meet to
select an Impartial Chairman who shall serve
commencing with the date of his appointment
until] March 30, 1982. On March 1, 1982 and again
on March 1, 1983, the rarties hereto shall meet
to select a new Impar:ial Chairman who shall
serve in each of the second and third years of
this Agreement. The Impartial Chairman so
selected in each of the second and third years of
this Agreement shall serve commencing March 31
of each respective year until the following March
30, unless the parties hereto mutually decide to
retain the same Impartial Chairman from one year
to the next. In the event that the parties fail to

65

FUNDO000957


designate an Impartial Chairman within twenty-
one (21) days after the signing of this agree-
ment, the Impartial Chairman shall be selected
from a list supplied by the American Arbitration
Association in accordance with its then con-
trolling rules and regulations governing such
selection.

16-M. 2. In addition to the Impartial Chairman
to be designated as provided in Section 16-M. 1 of
this agreement, an Alternate Impartial Chairman
shail be designated in the same manner. The
Alternate Impartial Chairman shall become the
Impartial Chairman in the event that the in-
cumbent Impartial Chairman is incapacitated or
otherwise unable or unwilling to serve. In the
event the Alternate Impartial Chairman so be-
comes the Impartial Chairman (except for a
period which the parties mutually declare to be a

temporary period, e.g.; hospitalization of the in--

cumbent), then the parties at once shall follow
the procedures of Section 16-M. 1 to name a new
Alternate Impartial Chairman.

No Change in Condition

16-M, 3, With the exception of a layoff, as here-
inbefore provided in Section 8-D, and except in
ease of discharge of employees, ne change in con-
dition shall be put in effect by either party to this
contract without the prior consent of the other.
In the event that such change is placed in effect,
either party may file formal written demand for
a hearing before the Appeals Board without re-
sort to the Joint Standing Committee and said
Appeals Board shall be convened immediately and

66

hear and determine the issue within two (2)
weeks from the date of the filing of such demand.

16-M. 4. In the event a change shall have been
made and shall have been in effect for a period
of more than thirty (80) days, then the change
may be continued in effect pending a determina-
tion by the Appeals Board. If the change has not
been in effect for more than thirty (80) days, the
Union, immediately after filing written notice,
may request the chairman designated to serve on
the Appeals Board to direct the Publisher who has
made the change to discontinue it and to restore
the prior existing conditions pending a full hear-
ing by the Appeals Board and its determination,
and the Publisher upon receipt of such notice
from the chairman shall thereupon immediately

_restore the prior existing conditions.

16-M. 5. In all grievances concerning change
of conditions arising under paragraphs 16-M. 3.
and 16-M. 4., the Impartial Chairman selected
under 16-M. 1. and 16-M. 2. shall constitute the
fifth impartial member of the Appeals Board. The
Appeals Board so constituted shall hear and de-
¢eide grievances concerning change vf conditions
arising under paragraph 16-M. 8. a d 16-M. 4.
exclusively and may only hear an decide the
merits of the underlying grievances. differences,
or disputes resulting from the particular change
of conditions with the consent of both parties.

No Strike, No Lockout
16-N. No strike, lockout or other cessation of
work or interference therewith shall be ordered

67

FUNDOO000958
 Se ee es

Pee mnie



or sanctioned by any party hereto during the term °

hereof except as against the party failing to
comply with a decision, award or order of the
Joint Standing Committee, the Adjustment Board
or the Appeals Board. ~ ;

16-0. The fees of the arbitrator and the Impar-
tial Chairman and such expenditures as may
be incurred by them in the performance of their
duties shall be borne equally by the Union and
the Publishers’ Association of New York City.

16-P, All time limits under the above proce-
dures of Section 16 may be extended by mutual
agreement of the parties.

SECTION 17

Mutual Guarantees

i7-A.1. Because of the enactment of the Labor-
Management Relations Act, 1947, this contract
‘differs from contracts between these parties over
a period of many years. Specifically, this agree-
ment eliminates the closed shop, and references
thereto because it no longer is permissible under
the federal law. This provision is printed below
in italics for reference only and not as a part of
this Agreement.

2-L. The Union shall furnish at all times and
at regular time rates as many men as may be
required by a Publisher, such men to be com-
tion for which they are required. If a Publisher
requires his regular employees to work in excess
of a fifth shift, overtime at the rate of time and
one-half shall be paid for the full shift. When

68

+ Me

_the Union fails to furnish such men prompily,

the Publisher is authorized to meet his needs by
employing such men as he may be able to obtain;
tf the men so employed are not members of the
Union they shall be employed only so long as the
Union does not furnish members of the Union
willing and qualified to take their places, but any
man so employed shall be allowed to complete his
day’s work. Nothing herein contained is to be
construed as conferring power upon any Pub-
lisher to fill a regular situation with anyone not
a member of the Union. . .

17-A.2, I¢ is understood and agreed, however,
for the duration of this Agreement, that if any
provision as shown above in italics, and as modi-
fied from the preceding Agreement or excluded
from this Agreement solely because of the restric-
tions of law, no longer is held to be inoperative,
either by legislative enactment or by decision
of the court of highest resource, then such pro-
vision automatically shall become a part of this
Agreement, to the extent permitted, and be in
force and effect as though it had been originally
made a part hereof.

Separability Clause

17-B. To the best knowledge and belief of the
parties this contract now contains no provision
which is contrary to federal or state law or regu-
lation. Should any provision of this contract, at
any time during its life, be in conflict with federal
or state law or regulation by reason of the pass-
age of any statute, rule, or regulation after the
execution of this agreement, or by reason of any

69

FUNDOO00959
 een eee a need



decision, ruling or decree by any tribunal of com-
petent authority made after the execution of this
agreement, then such provision shall become inop-
erative, either upon agreement by the parties that
such conflict exists, or upon a determination to
that effect by the Appeals Board. A dispute with
respect to the legality of the provision will be
subject to arbitration in accordance with the
procedures outlined in Section 16 of this contract.
In the event that any provision of this contract
thus becomes inoperative, the remaining provi-
sions of the contract shall, nevertheless, remain
in full force and effect. Either party shall have
the right to serve a written request upon the other
party to renegotiate on the subject matter of the
inoperative provision, so as to conform it to the
law. In the event the parties cannot reach agree-
ment, the subject matter of the inoperative pro-
vision may be referred by either party to the
Appeals Board.
Spirit and Letter

17-C. It mutually is agreed that the spirit as
well as the letter of this Agreement is to be ob-
served in full and that neither party will enter
into any other agreement which in any way ren-
ders impossible or inoperative any provisions of
this Agreement,

Agreement on Bargaining
. The parties hereto agree that they have
argained with respect to wages, hours, and
other terms and conditions of employment and
have settled the same for the term of this Agree-
ment in accordance with the terms hereof.

70

ay
—
er

eae Rr Img me me aa SPINE i NEI Wiel bk Mi ae Ne Sqm

SECTION 18

Suspension and Merger Pay

In the event of merger, consolidation, or per-
manent suspension by any newspaper covered by
this agreement all regular situation holders with
one (1) year or more of service as regular situa-
tion holders who by virtue of the merger, consoli-
dation, or permanent suspension are deprived of
regular situations shall receive the cash equiva-
lent of eight weeks (40 shifts) pay at their cur-
rent rate in addition to any accumulated vacation
credits or any other money due them.

SECTION 19

Termination and New Agreement

This Agreement was negotiated individually
with the Publisher of The Times and of The
News and shall be treated by the Union and each
such Publisher as an ‘individual agreement be-
tween them. It shall be in force for a period
from the beginning of the day shift on March
3], 1981, and shall continue in full force and
effect up to and including March 30, 1984, sub-
ject to the following provisions:

(a) Seventy-five (75) days prior to the expira-
tion date of this contract either party may give
to the other party written notice of its desire to
change the contract, along with such changes as
it may wish to have made. After the giving of
such notice immediate endeavors shall be made
to negotiate a new contract. If agreement has not
been reached by a date thirty (36) days prior to

71

FUNDOOO00960
 tte tke
iter Ee oe ewe

)

: :
FAO Ree ote al th,



the expiration date of this contract then by
mutual consent the parties may invite a repre-
sentative of the New York State Board of Media-
tion or of the Federal Mediation and Conciliation
Service, or both, to participate in the remaining
days of negotiation.

(b) The giving of notice seventy-five (75) days
prior toe the expiration date rather than sixty-
five (65) days prior to the expiration date is in
the hope that the parties may arrive at an agree-
ment for a succeeding contract two (2) weeks
prior to the expiration date, thereby allowing
time for submission to and ratification by the
parties hereunto.

SECTION 20
SHOP CONDITIONS: GENERAL

Unused Paid Leave

20-A. In regard to payment for unused paid
leave days, if an employee has not taken off all
his paid leave days, then he shall receive in Heu
thereof for his unused paid leave days pay at his
normal straight-time weekly pay. In the event
that an employee has taken off some of his leave
days and is to receive a cash payment for the
balance, then the cash payment will be at the
rate he receives for the majority of his shifts.

Clerical Work
20-B. A joint study will be undertaken by each
Publisher and the Union during the term of this
Agreement to define the types of clerical work
which are appropriate to the deliverer’s bargain-
ing unit.

72

Groups 3 and 4 Overtime
20-C, Group 3 and 4 men will not be assigned
to work overtime which would normally be as-
signed to employees who are paid a higher rate.

Group 1 Vacations

20-D. If a Group 1 man takes a vacation during
a period when a holiday oceurs and the man quali-
fies under Section 7-D of the contract (discount-
ing the vacation period before or after the holi-
day) he is entitled to holiday pay in accordance
with Section 13-B. 4: provided, the Foreman has
the option to schedule vacations at his discretion
using seniority to determine the order in which
the men go on vacation.

Bulldog Phase-Out

Memorandum

20-E, 1. Netwithstanding any provision to the
contrary in the Agreement between NMDU and
the members of the PANYC, effective March 31,
1981 to March 80, 1984, if a Publisher decides to
eliminate, reduce or phase-out its early (“Bull-
dog”) edition, the terms of this Memorandum
shall govern the conditions of employment upon
such elimination, reduction or phasing-out.

20-E. 2. The Publisher shall give the Union
written notice of its intention to eliminate, re-
duce or phase-out its early edition.

20-E, 8. No regular situation holder employed
in connection with the delivery or handling of such
early edition will be laid off heeause of its elimi-

43

FUNDOO000961
 ig tea sachs MO age Bh oe



nation, reduction or phasing-out but will be de.
clared to be an “excess situation holder” if his
situation has been designated as an “excess
situation.”

20-E. 4, The regular situations no longer re-
quired because of such elimination, reduction or
phasing-out shall be designated by the Publisher
as “excess situations,”

20-E. 5. (a) When a vacant situation is to be
filled or a new situation created it shall be filled
by an “excess situation holder’ (so that an ad-
ditional situation is not made) until all “excess
situation holders’ have been so placed.

20-E. 5. (b) Prior thereto “excess situation
holders” may be assigned to perform other avail-
able work described in Section 2 of the Agree-
ment for which they are qualified under such
rates of pay and working conditions as are ap-
plicable to regular situation holders under the
Agreement.

20-E. 6. The right of the Publisher to reduce the
number of routes, carriers or deliveries and to
combine, amalgamate, condense, alter, discontinue
or otherwise rearrange routes or deliveries is
recognized by the Union but the Publisher waives
its right to lay off men in connection with the
elimination, reduction or phasing-out of the early
edition, except as to “excess situation holders”
who are seventy (70) or more years of age nor
shall the provisions of Sections 3 and 4 of the
Agreement be applicable to them.

20-E. 7. The Union recognizes that overtime
payments associated or connected with the early
edition, or that portion of it hereby affected, may

74

Bm Oe ML OY si Og a Co a

be discontinued immediately upon the elimination,
reduction, or phasing-out of the early edition.
The assigning of starting times and days off of
“excess situation holders” upon the elimination,
reduction, or phasing-out of the early edition shall
be at the diseretion of the Publishers and may be
done in a manner calculated to minimize the
hiring of extras and to reduce or eliminate over-
time whether on the regular morning routes or on
the early edition itself.

Paycheck Error

20-F. In the event an error occurs in a pay-
check of one day’s pay or more, The News will
make a correction within 48 hours after notice has
been given to the foreman. Such 48-hour notice
will not include days off or days on which the
payroll department normally is closed. The Times
will continue its present practice.

SECTION 21
SHOP CONDITIONS: THE NEWS

Sunday Sections

21-A. Any questions arising out of changes in
the deliveries of black and white Sunday Sections
which are subject to arbitration under the contract
and which are submitted to arbitration will be
arbitrated under Section 16 hereof.

All-Advertising Sections

21-B, 1. The News agrees that when it is print-
ing on its own present press equipment a black

75

a ce |

FUNDOO000962
 _

ern ee IO “
Ce eee ee ee

Bt arena tae ig
rte < thsenadi

a



and white all-advertising section for insertion at
the Newspoint Plant it will also distribute for
the same issue date what are currently known as
Section 2 (Living) and Section 3 (Leisure) for
Nassau, Suffolk and Queens; and Section 2 (a
combination of the Living and Leisure Sections)
for Kings, Manhattan, Bronx, Westchester, Staten
Island and New Jersey.

21-B, 2. Furthermore, for the issues involving
Washington’s Birthday, Memorial Day and Co-
lumbus Day, The News will not insert such a
black and white all-advertising section for distri-
bution in any area unless it is also distributing a
third section (Section 8—Leisure) for that issue
in that area.

21-B. 8. Provided further, for a period of nine
(9) months, ending on June 30, 1974, The News
will not insert such a black and white all-adver-
tising section for distribution in Kings unless it

is also distributing a Section 8 (Leisure) in Kings _

for that same issue. During the first succeeding
three (8) months, July, August and September
1974, this Hmitation shall not apply; during the

second succeeding three (8) months, October, No- |

vember and D.cember 1974, his Hmitation shall
apply; and, during the third succeeding three (8)
months, January, February and March 1975, this
limitation again shall not apply.

21-B. 4. This agreement [concerning all-adver-
tising sections] ends effective March 80, 1975.

Four-Point Memorandum

21-C. 1. New York Color Room Clerks (Korn,
McGuiness, Rossi and Lynough) will receive

76

ee

8 additional hours of overtime per man per
week when the regular roto is 75, 60, 50, 40 or
fewer copies per load or when there is an extra
roto or rotos or when both conditions exist in the
Manhattan Plant.

21.C, 2, At 148 or more pages per copy, black
and white, all News trucks (except Pallet trucks)
will carry no more than 240 loads.

21-C. 3. Franchise Operation:

a) No franchise dealer will make delivery

to another franchise dealer.

b) There will be no reduction in the pres-
ent number of a.m, routes as a result
of home delivery. There are now 133
a.m. routes in New York and Brooklyn
plants.

c) The home delivery routemen will make
up the odds on the black and white, in-
cluding writing of wrappers for the
odds.

d) Starting time of franchise routemen
to be no later than 12 midnight. Union
to send letter that it will meet to re-
solve a problem of overtime at News-
point on Franchise runs if, under nor-
mal operation, one arises due to this
paragraph.

e) Home delivery runs will not service
any dealers other than franchise dealers.

f) Three new franchise jobs (one with
collections and Saturday and Sunday
off) will be established in the Manhat-
tan Plant.

vi

FUNDOO00963


g) Except as provided in the Newspoint
Agreement, tailmen will be used when
the number of loads on a truck exceed

180 loads. This applies to all load sizes -

(black & white, comic and roto, mains,
supplements or combinations of the
foregoing).

h) The union agrees to Hft the prohibition
against splitting a franchise dealer’s
order on more than one truck.

21-C. 4. Bindery Operation — Transport men
hired according to need.

| Newpoint
Rotogravure/Insert Plant
21-D. This Paragraph deals with the News-
point Rotogravure/Insert Plant.
I. Load, Dealer, Tailman and Recovery
Schedules for Direct Delivery Routes

A. Schedule for all areas except Suffolk Coun-
ty, Franchise Runs and Recovery Runs:

Papers Maximum Number of Maximum Number

Per Load Loads with o Talimen of Dealers
150 or more 150 loads . $0 dealers
100 papers 185 loads 90 dealers
45 papers 220 loads 85 dealers
50 papers 250 loads 80 dealers
40 papers 275 loads 65 dealers
less than 40 300 loads 55 dealers

Tailmen will be employed on all runs covered
by this Schedule “A” except for recovery runs.

%8

B. Schedule for Suffolk County:

Maximum Number of Loads

Papers Per Load Without « Tailman*

150 or more 100 loads
100 papers 125 loads
75 papers 140 loads
50 papers 155 loads
40 papers 170 loads
less than 40 180 loads

C. Schedule for Franchise Runs:

Maximum Number of Loods

Papers Fer Lood Without a Tallman*

150 or more 140 loads
100 papers 150 loads
75 papers 175 loads
50 papers 200 loads
40 papers 220 loads
less than 40 240 loads

* If these schedules are exceeded then Schedule “A” will apply.
D. Schedule for Recovery Runs:

Recovery runs (runs which recover shortages
and/or serve dealers who are closed on their
regular delivery day) shall not exceed 100 loads
on a truck unless a tailman is employed.

E. Present practice with respect to running
time will continue to apply to routemen and to
tailmen when employed.

ll. Schedules for Mail Runs
and Inter-Plant Shipments

A. When pallet trucks are not used a maxi-
mum of 250 Joads shall be placed on a truck,

79

FUNDOO00964
 atk

Be sete.

ee he acdtct aeons:



BO ae ann kate arti n s0t vd ai Se a

B. When pallet trucks are used present prac-
tice will be continued.

IIL Manning (Day side, double out only)
a) 1 man (journeyman) in the console room.
b) 1 man on each card reader/wire machine
when running direct delivery.
c) 8 general floormen to be used when and
where needed as directed.
d) 1 man for hi-lo/offloading work.
e) 5 men for dispatching, gassing trucks, etc.
f} 1 office clerk.
g) Loaders will be employed as follows:
50 or more papers per load—4 men per
stacker line.

Less than 50 papers per load--5 men per
stacker line.

Loaders may be rotated with other delivery
personnel, but there will be the above specified
numbers of men at the loading positions of a
stacker line whenever trucks are being loaded
at said positions. When said loading positions
are not being used or When they are “down”
the loaders for these positions may be assigned
to floor work, mail runs or inter-plant deliveries
only.

IV. Lunch Period and Coffee Breaks
A 45 minute lunch period end two 15 minute
coffee breaks (one in the mvening and one in
the afternoon) shall be pre-ided and shall be
scheduled by the Foreman. It is understood that

80

if the requirements of the operation necessitate
it, the lunch period or coffee breaks may have
to be “worked” and will be compensated as pro-
vided in Section 5N of the Agreement,

Vv. Commercial Work.

Commercial work printed but not inserted at
Newspoint shall be handled as follows:

a) work which is destined for delivery to lo-
eations within the contractually designated
“territorial coverage’ of the Union shall
be delivered to such locations by employees
covered by the Agreement between the
Union and The News.

b) work which is destined for delivery to lo-
cations outside the contractually designated
“territorial coverage” of the Union shall be
delivered by employees covered by the
Agreement between the Union and The
News to points designated by The News.
The location of said points will be in line
with current policy.

c) It is agreed the “extra crew” requirements
‘of Section 8-L of the contract between the |
Union and The News are not applicable to
the tying or to any in-plant handling of
commercial work at Newspoint.

VI.
The 58 men employed on the day side as of
August 17, 1978 (names attached in Appendix
A) will continue to be employed on the day side.

This is not to be interpreted as a guaranty of
58 day jobs at The News nor is it to be in-

81

FUNDOO00965
 wey > . .
* * oo hat af ete tg gt gat =. pe Airesamate oars :
ptt at an A A MRA RA OA DE cern Se a pe NOT LAR NT OE yl O Ah ae ult OO ACEP OL OG ot 0 6

}



* ‘

terpreted to deprive the Union of the right to
maintain that any job vacated by any of the 58
men shal] be retained on the day side,

VII.

Any additional situations created at Newspoint -
‘ghall be posted in accordance with Section 4 of the

Agreement.
VIL.

This agreement [concerning Newspoint Roto-
gravure/Insert Plant] supersedes and replaces all
other agreements, memoranda or practices which
would otherwise relate or be applicable to the
Newspoint operation except as otherwise stated
herein,

Special Points

21-E. In connection with The News it is un-
derstood:

The IBM stipulation continues as it applies to
the Daily News only.

It is agreed that delivery. runs to franchise
dealers will contain newspapers for the franchise
dealers exclusively.

Lockers assigned to the NMDU will be reviewed
and revised in a fair and equitable manner.

The foreman will notify the chairman at least
one week prior to any change in the method of
delivery of relays, routes and use of tail men on
a holiday night.

News Pension Plan

21-F, This Paragraph deals with the New York
News Pension.

82

‘ ey ae
r aot . t ee . .
Oo! "a etd Seat Cake Ra rena 0 melee ee eee
#9

1. The News and the Union shall each appoint
an actuary to determine jointly the reasonable
and proper actuarial funding cost of The News
pension plans as amended in paragraph 2 below
for the calendar year 1966. If the two actuaries
fail to agree on the amount, this question shall go
to a third actuary to be selected by them for final
and binding arbitration. In the event that the two
actuaries are unable to agree on the third actuary,
he shall be appointed by the American Arbitra-
tion Association from its panel of commercial
arbitrators. All reasonable costs of the actuaries
shall be paid by The News. The News shall con-
tribute the amount determined by the actuaries
for the plan as selected in paragraph 2 below:

2. The Union shall select one option from
among the following for determination of retire-
ment benefits:

(a) The News basic pension plan shall be
amended so as to provide that basic pension bene-
fits of all Deliverers who retire on or after March |
31, 1970 shall not be reduced by the amount of
any pension benefits. received from any other
pension plan. or by the amount of any increase in
Social Security benefits above the level prevailing
on December 31, 1964, and to provide further that
The News shall not make any change in its pen-
sion plans which affects the benefits to be pro-
vided by The News without the advance written
approval of the chapel and advance written ap-
proval of the Union.

(b) The News shall determine and freeze the
net pension accrued to March 31, 1970 for each

83

FUNDOOO00966


covered employee in accordance with the terms of
The News pension plans as amended in paragraph
2(a) above. For service on and after March 31,
1970, benefits shall be provided under a new
pension plan, the terms of which shall be jointly
agreed upon.

3. In the event that it is mutually agreed that
a pension agreement already negotiated by The
News with another union or there is a pension

_agreement which is negotiated during past or

current negotiations which grants improvements,

‘ which taken in their entirety, are more favorable

than those described herein, The News will grant
comparable improvements to covered employees.
Should a dispute arise under this paragraph, the
procedure for resolving disputes set forth in
paragraph 1 shall be used.

“Zone” Routes

21-G. 1. During the negotiations for this Agree-
ment, the parties acknowledged the need for The
News to operate as efficiently as possible. The
parties also recognize that the “zone” route con-
cept used at Newspoint as it might be introduced
into the black and white operation would have a
significant impact on the deliverers.

21-G. 2. Before implementation, the NMDU
agrees to meet with The News to negotiate the
terms under which such a concept can be put into

effect, Such concept shall not be put into effect

without agreement of the NMDU.
21-G. 3. This Agreement [concerning “zone”

84

routes] will expire in three years [from March
$1, 1981].

SECTION 22
SHOP CONDITIONS: THE TIMES

Times Carlstadt Facility

22-A. These are the final minutes of The
Times-NMDU Sub-Committee. These Minutes are
divided into three main chapters: I—General
Memorandum Concerning Carlstadt; J]—Juris-
diction at Carlstadt; and J]]-—Over-the-Road
Trucking. .

The Times and the Union agree as set forth
below on certain aspeets of The Times’ opera-
tions at its new facility at Carlstadt, New Jersey.

Two major factors in the decision of The
Times to make the large capital investment re-

. Gaired by the Carlstadt facility were the need

‘go make substantial productivity gains and to
meet the competitive challenge of suburban news-
papers. The partics recognize that the challenge
of suburban newspapers can be met only if the
production and distribution of The Times are
timely and meet the needs of the reader.
Accordingly, The Times and the Union commit
themselves to-the achievement of maximum pro-
ductivity and efficiency at the Carlstadt facility
consistent with the terms of this memorandum
and of the contract. This does not preclude the
Union from negotiating for manning that is
hecessary to perform the various tasks in its
jurisdiction and to avoid undue hardships.

85

FUNDO000967
 :
fe “gto * + *, « . “
et ata dees faite bbe toe ine Wet em te lee em ee

a 4 ”
AM a, ee Te .

2 ) eat



The Times and the Union note their commit-
ment to the orderly settlement of disputes that
arise during the term of the contract (as set
forth in Section 16 of the contract) and affirm
that any disputes that arise between them at
the Carlstadt facility will be resolved expeditious-
ly and without interruption of operations.

Jurisdiction at Carlstadt

Offloading
The delivery department has jurisdiction of the
offloading of all sections, color and black-and-
white, brought to Carlstadt.
All Offcaded sections will be taken exclusively E, rs
by delivery departient employees to designated '72-~

storage areas generally located immediately to | ec

the north of the inserting machines. In addition” | Meu . . :
| oil The delivery department will have exclusive

_ jurisdiction of the Sta-Hi Newstrack and of all

to that: prior to the start each week of mail oe
room operations (i.e normally at 10 a.m. o” eck
Wednesdays) all color sections will be placed — et

exclusively by delivery department employees, as’ Wag:
" ° AT

ordered, around the inserting machines. ;
Insert Tying Lines Pot

An insert tying Hne CITL) begins after the
placement of the bottom wrapper (immediately
after the stacker), continues down the belt
through the wire machines, and goes on into and
through the bundle injector.

Combo runs: the delivery department will have
exclusive jurisdiction of ITLs destined for city
delivery, or percentage equivalent of the city cir-
culation which is approximately 4.

86

4
nett
eh



. * . cs . rete .8 woe,
PL aat a erttae sf * , * ot oh Sy Sr oe Or

Four sheets: the delivery department will have
exclusive jurisdiction of ITL on all four-sheets.

City completes: the delivery department will
have exclusive jurisdiction of ITLs on all city
completes.

Press Tying Lines

A press tying line (PTL) begins after the
placement of the bottom wrapper (immediately
after the stacker}, continues down the belt
through the wire machines, and goes on into and
through the bundle injector.

City delivery: the delivery department will
have exclusive jurisdiction of PTLs for news-

paper destined for New York City or percentage -
equivalent of city circulation.

Sta-Hi Newstrack & Truck Loaders

truck loaders, including, but not Hmited to, op-
erations, contre! and clearing of jams.

. Kirk-Rudy Mailing Machine

The delivery department jurisdiction of the
Kirk-Rudy mailing machine begins with the de-
livery side of the wire machine and continues
on inte the truck.

Tied Bundles

The stacking, storing and handling of tied
bundles is exclusively within the jurisdiction of
the delivery department.

87

FUNDOO00968


Control Room

That part of the control room (console) func-
tion dealing with ITLs, PTLs, Sta-Hi Newstrack,
truck loaders (or any other operation under the
jurisdiction of the delivery department) is with-
in the jurisdiction of the delivery department.
Delivery department personnel assigned to the
control room will be Journeymen, not supervisors.

Odds
The make-up, counting, handling and tying of
odds for West Side direct delivery is the ex-
elusive Jurisdiction of the delivery department.

General Statement
In addition to the specific operations men-
tioned by name in these Minutes, any operations
over which the delivery department had juris-
diction at 43d Street, whether by contract or by
precedent, will continue to be within the juris-
diction of the delivery department at Carlstadt.

Floor Operations

Under any and all operating conditions a
minimum of one delivery department employee

will be assigned to the floor, inside the mailroom |

exclusive of delivery department ITL or PTL
operators.
Lunch Times & Coffee Breaks

Delivery department floormen, except truck
loaders, will be given 40 minutes for lunch; and,
at the option of the foreman: either two 165-
minute coffee breaks or one 80-minute coffee
break.

88

Truck Joaders will be given 80 minutes for
lunch and one 15-minute coffee break; and the
offieec will continue to give the following relief
periods: 20 minutes per trailer whether loaded,
as the office may direct, to full capacity or to
partial capacity; and 15 minutes each per sub-
urban truck or mail bag truck.

Over-the-Road Trucking

Farer Runs

Within GO days of the ratification of this
Agreement 50 percent of the runs handled as of
November 1, 1975 by Farer Transportation Co.
will be eonverted into direct runs,

No later than March 31, 1977 any runs re-
maining with Farer either will have been con-
verted into direct runs or the transfer point for
such yunse will have been established at a loza-
tion 150 miles from Columbus Circle.

Hightstown, N.J,

Upon the ratifieation of this Agreement the
transfer point at Hightstown, N.J. will be elim-
inated; papers formerly transferred there will be
delivered either direct to Philadelphia or to a
destination other than Philadelphia provided that
such other destination is at a location further

Deliveries to Trenton, N.J.
Within 60 days of the ratification of this
Agreement papers delivered as of November 1,

89

FUNDOOO00969
 Senet a eae er eee



1975 by the Brauninger News Co. to Trenton,
N.J. will be delivered direct to Trenton.

Run Times
Upon the ratification of this Agreement the
phrase “89 miles” as printed in the middle of
Paragraph (ix) on Page 85 of the 1973-75 con-
tract booklet will be changed to “27 miles.’

Philadelphia Runs

Within 60 days of the ratification of this

Agreement, but on a date mutually agreeeble
to The Times and to the Union, the run time
for the trailer daily runs to Philadelphia (Sun-
day night through Friday night) will be estab-
lished at nine hours,

A situation will be established by inter-shop
bidding to handle such runs; the off days of such

- situation will be either Friday-Saturday or Satur-

day-Sunday.

Other Matters

Vaeation Checks
22-B. Vacation checks at The Times shall have

| tax deductions made at. the same rate as the de-

ductions made on weekly checks, On those oc-
casions when the taxes deducted are in excess of
the normal weekly deduction, the payroll depart-
ment, on request, within 24 hours shall issue a
cash voucher representing the amount of the
over-deduction.
Five Points
22-C. In connection with The Times:

90

TP ait mo seaman ares + UREN. 5 fipili Ce ed ee eee i: nad

wt.

ete. we

a. Combos and 5/3 sheets will be “kicked off”
in variables of five, The Sunday completes will
be continued to kick off as heretofore,

b, Airport pick-up of the International Edition
of The New York Times will be under the juris-
diction of the NMDU,

ce. Upon installation of new conveyor equipment
The Times and the Union will observe the new
conveyor system to determine manpower require-
ments.

d. Relief Item: Effective with the ratification
of the contract by the Union:

20 minutes relief per trailer or part
thereof will be provided.

15 minutes relief per suburban truck
will be provided.

15 minutes relief per mail bag truck
will be provided.

e. Disputes arising out of the interpretation
and application of the above concerning relief will

.be brought to Theodore Kheel for decision.

Interpretation of 2-E. 2

Over-the-Road Trucking

22-D. This section interprets Section 2-E.2 as
2-E.2 affects The Times:

MEMORANDUM
During the negotiations leading to the Agree-
ment between The Times and the Union effective
March 81, 1970 a committee representing The

91

FUNDO000970


whe cri :
all

Times and the Union reached certain decisions
regarding the interpretation of Section 2-E.2 as
it affects The Times. These decisions relate to the
future; they are prospective. Until they are in
force Section 2-E.2 as written in the Agreement
will continue to apply to all existing runs; and
the status quo of each existing run until] and if it
is phased out will be maintained in all details
such as, for example, the present location of
transfer points. These decisions are:

Point One
Section 2-E.2 as it appears in the main bedy
of this Agreement applies to The Times and the
Union fully, except as to such modifications as
are described in this letter.

Point Two

Paragraph (e) will be construed as if it reads
as follows:

(i) During the term of this Agreement The
Times will begin to apply the principle that all
over-the-road trucking now being done by com-
mon carrier will be done by employees covered by
this Agreement, except for those common carrier
runs which extend for more than 250 miles from
Columbus Circle or which have more than two
stops.

(ii) A run which because of the exceptions pro-
vided in Sub-Paragraph (i) or this Paragraph
(e) is not driven by an employee covered by this
Agreement will be driven to a transfer point by
an employee covered by this Agreement. A trans-
fer point is a location where the trailer is un-

92

. SOMMER CUT UN ETS

hooked and picked up by a tractor driven by a
person not covered by this Agreement or where
the newspapers in the trailer are unloaded and
carried away in trucks driven by persons not
covered by this Agreement. The location of such
a transfer point will be selected by The Times,
subject to the agreement of the Union. If no
such agreement is had, the issue will be consid-
ered a dispute under Section 16 of this Agree-
ment.

(iif) In selecting such a transfer point in the
ease of a run, excepted by Sub-Paragraph (i),
extending more than 250 miles from Columbus
Circle, The Times will pick a location, more than
150 miles from Columbus Circle, but no such
transfer point will be farther from Columbus
Circle, except at the choice of The Times, than
the destination point of the papers carried,

{iv) In selecting a transfer point in the case of
a run, excepted by Sub-Paragraph (i), which has
more than two stops, The Times will pick a loca-
tion which is no farther from Columbus Circle
than 150 miles but no nearer to Columbus Circle
than any transfer point in use as of the date of
signing of this Agreement, namely: Fairfield, Con-
necticut; Southfield, New York; and Hightstown,
New Jersey.

(v) A Times driver at a transfer point where
bundles are being unloaded for cartage by others
will be responsible for his load; his duties will
include checking out the bundles to the consignees.

(vi) When tractor trailer drivers do not work
a fifth shift but have worked 45 hours or more

93

FUNDOO000971

Pkg
a
 en oe Ts



in the same payroll week, they will receive
benefit credits as if they worked the fifth shift
(vacation, sick days, pension and welfare, etc.).

(vii) By January 1, 1974, The Times will have
the NMDU make all United runs from Hights-
town to Philadelphia. At the same time, The
Times will have the NMDU make daily runs
which are presently delivered to United in Jersey
City. These will be delivered in straight trucks
without tailmen to either Philadelphia or sub-
urban Philadelphia. In the event the new runs
result in a jurisdictional dispute which inter-
feres with distribution or causes a substantial
sales loss, due to a jurisdictional dispute, The
Times will revert to the present delivery pro-
cedure until the dispute is resolved. The Times
will promptly use every practical legal means
to implement the new runs. If legal action can-
not resolve the problem, the change will not be
instituted. Instead The Times will have the NMDU
handle runs presently delivered by Farer Trans-
portation, which match the present daily drops.
The Times will also move the Fairfield transfer
point to the nearest practical location 15 miles
further from Columbus Circle.

(vill) The Times and the Union agree to meet
promptly after the ratification of the agreement
to discuss the feasibility of direct delivery to
suburban areas surrounding cities other than
Philadelphia outside the metropolitan area such
as Boston, Washington, Baltimore, ete.

(ix) On those runs and on any new runs es-
tablished thereafter pursuant to Section 2-E. 2

MANET ILO OIE a EE MT, Pees +

ge Mitten mein gt

the run time will be based upon the following
rule: one hour of run time for every 27 miles
of road covered in a run direct from The Times
to a single destination. Allowance will be made
on runs with more than one destination,

(x) Paragraph (h) will be construed
clude this stipulation: This paragraph (h) may
not be invoked by The Times to assign to a motor
vehicle common carrier, except where the seasonal
factor is the basis of the assignment, a run,
in whole or in part, which has been in opera-
tion for nine consecutive months. An example of
the: seasonal factor is the delivery by Times
tractor-trailer to a resort area in the summer
time with delivery to the same area in the
winter time by common carrier in a combination
run.

Men at Station

(22-E. This section, dealing with work assign-
ments at the Grand Central Station, was nego-
tiated in connection with the agreement effec-
tive March 81, 1970 between The Times and the
Union.

1, Six situation holders (H. Abbott, H. Imo-
witz, A. Romeo, McNamara, J. Partridge, W.
Tafuri}) hold situations an element of which is
handling baggage at Grand Central Station on |
Saturday. As the new over-the-road procedures
are put into force, the need for handling baggage
at Grand Central Station will be reduced. As such
work drops off, the assignments of these men will
be changed as follows:

95

FUNDO000972


Sah oe nS

2. Of the six regular situation holders listed
above, the Union will designate two by name
whose situations will continue in their present
form during the term of this Agreement; and, if
either of those so named situation holders vacates
his situation during the term of this Agreement,
a replacement will be named; and the situation
so filled by that replacement will continue in its
present form during the term of this Agreement.

3(a). The situations of the remaining four situ-
ation holders listed above will continue unchanged
during the term of this Agreement except that:
if any of those four named situation holders
vacates for any reason his situation during the
term of this Agreement, that situation will cease
to exist in its present form and instead will be-
come a floor situation.

3(b). As of the last day of this Agreement any
of those four situations not vacated during the
term of this Agreement will be changed to floor
situations; and any of the four named situation
holders still in those situations as of the last day
of this Agreement thereafter will fill such floor
situations.

4. No extra men will be assigned to handle
baggage at Grand Central Station on Saturdays
unless there is baggage-handling work there for
them to do.

Benefit Programs

New York Times Pension
22-F. The Times Retirement Annuity Plan shall

96

* ‘ .
. Scan A eae een thet cance Mil Pat oct iA tht tentacle acierty Ry Bead,
- Ag A. t
Gann

— we eae TTR ere wee

fe te Rte ME pense ah MONE Ne me

be amended so as to provide that Retirement
Annuity Plan benefits of an employee covered by
this Agreement who retires on or after April 1,
1970, shall not be reduced by the amount of any
pension benefits from any other pension plan.

New York Times Group Life Insurance

22-G. This section deals with the group life.
insurance program at The Times.

J. On and after the thirtieth day following the
date of signing of the collective bargaining agree-
ment effective March 81, 1970 an employee cov-
ered by it who is or becomes eligible to partici-
pate in a Hfe insurance plan provided by The
Times will not suffer reduction of benefits under
that plan by reason of any benefit which may be
received or receivable (a) under the life insur-
ance plan established by NMDU Welfare Fund or
(b) under any other life insurance coverage

which such employee has or in the future may

have.

2. No later than the thirtieth day following the
date of signing of the collective bargaining agree-
ment effective March 81, 1970 The Times will:

(a) restore the full amount of contributory and
noncontributory Hfe insurance to which the em-
ployee thereafter is entitled, and for which he is
enrolled, under The Times plan; no medical ex-
amination will be required for this restoration;
and The Times will: .

(b) supply the foreman and the chapel chair-
man with copies of a form by which the employee
can decline the foregoing increase, insofar as it

97

FUNDO000973
 Pecan ts B Ite

a

<
4 .
:
G
iit Saige,



Pow *, +
‘ oe rary : Mate the tet et at phos
treat 4 The te ta EA ce oe RMR bee had kb.

applies to contributory life insurance, and any
future increases in contributory life insurance
under The Times plan, provided he submits such
declination form to The Times by the deadline
date clearly stated on the form. Having so sub-
mitted such a declination form, the employee will
retain his present amount of contributory life
insurance until it ends under the terms of The
Times plan; if on a later date he desires the full
amount of such contributory insurance, he must
meet as of that date all the requirements of such
plan, including the passing of a medical exam-
ination.

Bundle Schedule

22-H, This section, dealing with bundle sched-
ules, was negotiated in connection with the agree-
ment effective March 81, 1970 between The Times
and the Union.

The Times will issue a new bundle schedule
showing the following changes from the schedule
now in use:

1. Page sizes 92 and 96 will be loaded 340
bundles per truck.

2. Bundles of daily papers issue dates Monday
through Friday weighing 42 pounds or more will
be loaded 272 bundles per truck.

8. Trailers, whether carrying combos or black-
and-white sheets, will be loaded to a maximum of
six high. The black-and-white loading schedule
will be: bundle weight of 87 to 46 pounds, five
high; bundle weight of less than 37 pounds, six

98

high. On Saturday nights on black-and-white
sheets the maximum of six high may be exceeded
in the case of a reasonable number of bundles
to facilitate efficient loading.

MEMORANDUM
TIMES/NMDU AGREEMENT
RE: DAMAGE JUDGMENT
The Times and the NMDU agree:
1. The Times will not seek to collect the judg-

ment against the NMDU et al in the amount of

$229,718.00 granted in Civil Action 79-5383

(D.C.S.D.N.Y.), July 9, 1981.

2. The Times’ attorneys and the NMDU’s attor-
ney will develop a stipulation providing for the
withdrawal and vacation of the judgment in such
amount filed by The Times on July 29, 1981.

3. The Times is making this commitment be-
cause of the relationship which has developed be-
tween The Times and the NMDU since the grant-
ing of such judgment, and The Times’ action in
this situation shall not prejudice The Times’ right
to seek and collect damages from the NMDU with
respect to any future incident.

MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING ~

This Memorandum of Understanding is entered
into by the Newspaper and Mail Deliverers’
Union and the New York News.

The parties hereto agree as follows:
1. The Union will pay the principal sum of

99

POPC EOD NL PO REN Ct ye

v a aaa a

oe Le, OE Tee sy ee ee

eee

EPPO LEE KO

FUNDO000974

Kee TR ww
 BAe SERS eo Rana .

ahs’ se ee a meee ee
ES i Le Tl el the Miia



the damages entered against it by Arbitrator
Herbert Haber for the work stoppage of Decem-
ber 28/29, 1977 in the sum of $177,844.00 as
follows:

A. The said amount will be paid in monthly
installments of $1,250 commencing January 1,
1982.

B. The News hereby waives any claim for
interest on the principal amount.

C. No later than six months after the initial
monthly payment, the Union and The News shall
meet to review the payment schedule, the Union’s
ability to pay and other relevant factors.

D. The News agrees that if any other labor
organization receives or has received more favor-
able terms or treatment with respect to the pay-
ment or disposition called for by an arbitration
award or judicial decree, the same terms shall
be accorded to the Union, if it desires the same;
and this agreement will be amended accordingly.

2. Upon execution of this agreement, The
News will withdraw its suit (81 civ. 6562) to
confirm Arbitrator Haber’s award.

8. If the Union violates the provisions against
strikes and disruptions of orderly relationships
with the New York News, the entire remaining
balance of the aforesaid award shall become due
and payable forthwith. Nothing herein shall be
interpreted or construed to waive the right of the
New York News to receive damages and penalties

100

none gs

dhe ce keane mane ©

for any future violations of the aforesaid pro-
yisions to seek and obtain any and all other
remedies available to it.

MEMORANDUM

The Publishers’ Association agrees that each
Publisher shall give thirty (80) days’ notice prior
to any major change in its operations which has
an impact on a significant number of its NMDU
employees (e.g., Manhattan Route Reorganiza-
tion).

MEMORANDUM -
Changed Conditions

Arbitrator Herbert L. Haber shall render a
written decision interpreting the language of
Section 16-M. in accordance with his earlier oral
opinion in the Manhattan Route Reorganization
arbitration, which shall set forth the three points
concerning changed conditions contained in the
1971 decision of Arbitrator Peter Seitz in an
arbitration involving the New York News Ine.
and New York Mailers’ Union Number Six.
(Applicable “Status Quo” Provision).

MEMORANDUM

Every memorandum, letter agreement or side
agreement shall be continued through the term of
this agreement and deemed updated.

101

a

FUNDO000975

8 ee ree nme we teen owe oo ne ae
 {

Py
Ancona» Atma  mi  w

eh aah Pr ee ee ek 2



NEW YORK NEWS INC.

THE NEW YORK TIMES

',

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, we have executed this
agreement the 26th day of October, 1981.

For Publishers Association of New York City

‘

As agents for:

che raqearenee. Taw

by:

PUBLISHERS ASSOCIATION OF

NEW YORK CITY |

by? BL Miwbr——
For

NEWSPAPER A‘'D MAIL
DELIVERERS 7: NION OF
NEW YORK A™:D VICINITY

by: } ;
tS
vy ALLE LI

<

by:

( .
by ft Ee LELLERE

Dy: rel LL oes
Ld 4

102

oo
A he el ee meen ein ate a ots a ome
” - oot ac tenner lute eiossnnne! suet one wy mn we tm me sem * .

MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
(Supplementary Agreement)

This memorandum of understanding (Supple-
mentary Agreement) between The New York
Times and the Newspaper and Mail Deliverers’
Union of New York and Vicinity, dated June 23,
1981 concerns certain shop items negotiated as
part of the 1981 contract negotiations between
the parties. This Supplementary Agreement is
within the terms of the current collective bar-
gaining agreement between the parties.

The changes to be implemented are listed
below:

1. It is agreed that the present floor manning
in the Carlstadt plant shall be increased by one
(1) on both the night and day shifts, which
shall be designated a utility man. The company

agrees that this shall create two (2) new regular -

situations: one of 5 nights, and one of 4 days
and one night, and one additional shift (a total
of 11 shifts).

2, With the addition of this job, the foreman
may assign, as needed the utility man to jobs,
including but not limited to, relleving the con-
sole for breaks; clearing jams in the machine
room; handling wire machine breaks, etc. It is
understood that clearing log jams in the machine
room may only be performed by the utility man
{exclusive of foremen). ,

8. It is agreed that the combined floor hires
between both plants shall be at least eighty-one
(81) for the normal daily operation at the start
of the shift each night which shall not include

103

FUNDO000976
 y f= RT Te intl te OSA ERR i eRe eles
5

mentnapeprg tir rie 5 ranens-—aaiel)



ramen getty

"

the “Aleo Men” or people performing functions
other than regular floor work on the daily prod-
vet. Under the agreement, normal reduction in
press utilization (e.g. summer schedule) will not
affect the employment conditions of regular floor-
men. Six (6) of these floormen shall be chauf-
feurs and available to the office from the floor
at the 48rd Street Plant for driving assignments
during the shift as trailers leave provided all
areas are properly manned. Should the number
of men hired be reduced as herein set forth,
there shall be an equal reduction in the number
of floormen available for driving assignments.
This shall not, however, affect the obligation of
The Times to. hire from the shape in priority
order in accordance with the Agreement.

4. It is agreed that all regular situation hold-
ers as of the date of this agreement are guaran-
teed against a change in their. present starting
times. This guarantee against a chiage in start-
ing times exists so Jong as the nar..ed individuals
maintain their present jobs or wir a job through
the bidding procedure.

5. It is agreed that when a returning trailer
driver is required to drop his box at Carlstadt
rather than the uptown garage, he will be paid
an extra half hour at the required rate. If the
starting point and finishing point are the same
then the additional half hour is not applicable.

6. It is agreed that the Chairman will receive
a copy of all job descriptions and job assignments

‘as of the signing of the agreement.

7, It is agreed that the Company shall provide
104

ra Ae, AN CERNE GR, ST

A TE NT a

* *, * » y
ent ote wledaotte vin wy Dowson ome cian e+ oman Cine + magne arm meme wh

a “Blue Goose’ (passenger vehicle) for use on
Ignacious LoDico’s and Ken Pysock’s job.

The New York Times

105

FUNDO000977
 a)

iat ine bene

Le tl A aiheg ge



MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
NEWS SHOP CONDITIONS

. The News will establish direct delivery to

Albany on Saturdays (Sunday Issue), as it
does during the week.

. Once a month, The News will have a doctor

available evenings to give DOT examinations.

- No later than thirty (80) days after ratifi-

cation of the contract, The News will estab-
lish a Manhattan route 7 days a week. Such
route shall be filed by in-shop bidding.

Mun s Mail zeta Union

ew <an News Inc.

106

October 26, 1981

Mr. MURRAY SCHWARTZ

President

Newspaper & Mail] Deliverers’ Union
41-18 27th Street

Long Island City, N.Y.11101

Dear Mr. Schwartz:

The News agrees to resume, and the Times
will continue their past practice of posting job
descriptions including, but not limited to, start-
ing times and days off and job functions.

It is understood that these practices do not
limit either party’s rights under the collective
bargaining agreement.

Very truly yours,
U9

Publishers’ Association of
New ae City

ZL. aa

New 4 Neé we Ine.

New York Times Company

107

wr Clin! on acl “9 Nila De Bath cee tates per

FUNDO000978


ee er

.

te ttnontthet olin Be

THE PUBLISHERS ASSOCIATION
OF NEW YORK CITY

One Pennsylvania Plaza
New York, N.Y.
October 7, 1981

Mr. MURRAY SCHWARTZ
President
Newspaper & Mail Deliverers’ Union
41-18 27th Street
Long Island City, N.Y. 11101

Dear Mr. Schwartz:

This will confirm the Publishers’ understand-
ing that the Publishers shall grant the Union
whatever increase, however formulated, in pen-
sion, welfare and insurance benefits which the
Publishers grant any other labor organization
during the term of the Agreement unless the
improvements are granted in exchange for pro-
ductivity improvements (as determined to the
Union’s reasonable satisfaction) or are diverted
from the negotiated pattern package.

Very truly yours,

The BVO hea. Association of
New York

Spee < Tet

s Ine,

The New York Times Company

108

OF ane Dae tn gee oe

Mr. Murray SCHWARTZ October 26, 1981
President

Newspaper & Mail Deliverers’ Union

41-18 27th Street

Long Island City, N.Y. 11101

Dear Mr. Schwartz: *
This is to confirm:

1. That the present “status quo’. arbitrator
and the present “alternate status quo arbitrator”
shall continue to serve in their present respective
capacities, until the parties select a replacement
jn the manner provided by the parties’ Agree-
ment and that replacement has assumed the
position for which he is selected.

2. That the arbitrators presently remaining
on the list of arbitrators provided by Section
16-E.1 of the parties’ Agreement shall remain
on such lst until the parties have selected a new
Hst of arbitrators in the manner provided by
the parties’ Agreement and the new arbitrators
have’ accepted their selection to the parties’ list

of arbitrators.
‘Sy PR eae A ere
For Publishers’ Ass lation of

pee eI L./ j
j oo ork New, Ney ts J

For sod York Times Bee aos

¢

Agreed: ¢

Newspaper Mail & Hes

108

FUNDO000979


October 26, 1981

Mr. MURRAY SCHWARTZ

President

Newspaper & Mail Deliverers’ Union
41-18 27th Street

Long Island City, N.Y. 11101

Re: Weekly Checkoff

Dear Mr. Schwartz:

Upon sixty (60) days written notice from the
Union, the Publisher agrees to amend section
2-N.1 to provide for the checkoff of dues on a
weekly or bi-weekly basis as the Union may

choose.

Publishers’ Association
¢

“New York Timés C mpany
{het
Kees

News Ine.

a

October 26, 1981

Mr. Murray SCHWARTZ,

President

Newspaper & Mail Deliverers’ Union
41-18 27th Street

Long Island City, N.Y. 11101

Re: Pension Matters

Dear Mr. Schwartz:

During the recently concluded negotiations,
the Union had proposed a number of changes

‘and improvements concerning the Pension Plan.

Because these were complex and far-reaching
proposals, the Campany wishes to complete a
full review and‘siudy of the impact and feasibil-
ity of such propusals. This is to notify you that
The Times is happy to continue our discussions
and review of this subject during the life of the
1981-84 collective bargaining agreement,

Please contact me to arrange a date on which
these matters may be rescheduled for discussion
and review. ;

Very truly yours,

New York Times Company

ill

FUNDOO00980


: ” - . + aon oe wee
- of amen S ateabeaal sm genta * sheen Me,
“sant om ate aa Pa ee aad
ile tet cant ate mh te ical me im A Sa we haat acon a at i te a lt oA ee me

October 26, 1981

Mr. Murray ScHowarrz

President

Newspaper & Mail Deliverers’ Union
41-18 2%th Street

Long Island City, N.Y. 11101

Re: Lancaster, Pa.

Dear Mr. Schwartz:

During the negotiations for the 1981-84 collec-
tive bargaining agreement, The Times and the
Union discussed proposals by the Union under
which all or part of the magazine to be printed
in Lancaster, Pennsylvania could be transported
by members of the bargaining unit, providing
such transport did not involve the Times in
increased costs.

This operation is not scheduled to begin until
1982 and all of the facts are not yet available.
More time will be needed to fully review and
discuss all of the complexities of this proposal.
The Times has agreed to discussion concerning
‘the feasibility of this proposal before the opera-
tion begins.

Please contact me to arrange a date on which
these matters may be rescheduled for discussion
and review.

Very truly yours,

New York Times Company

112

2 ESE RSE ENT GT et

October 26, 1981

Mr, MURRAY SCHWARTZ

President

Newspaper & Mail Deliverers’ Union
41-18 27th Street

Long Island City, N.Y. 11101

Re: Payroll Deduction Savings Program

Dear Mr. Schwartz:

Following the settlement of the contract, The
News and Union will establish a Payroll Deduc-
tion Savings ‘Program.

The News will discuss with Citibank various
programs it offers, i.e., weekly deductions, higher
interest for moneys left on dey:osit for longer
periods, withdrawal options, co:% to employees,
etc.

If a sufficient number of employees are inter~
ested, Citibank (or another acceptable bank)
will be permitted to set up the program without
cost to The News.

Very truly yours,

Ce peer fo et Ine.

113

FUNDO000981


Pa ee ee One ee ‘a std a M clint ativan ste

October 28, 1981
Mr. MuRRAY SCHWARTZ

President

Newspaper & Mail Deliverers’ Union

41-18 27th Street

Long Island City, N.¥. 11101

Re: Heaters, Bostrum Seats and Safety
Equipment

Dear Mr. Schwartz:

New trucks purchased for The News will be
equipped with Bostrum Seats and under-the-seat
heaters. Under-the-seat heaters that exist in the
remaining trucks will be maintained in good
working order. All trucks used for over-the-road
runs (Long Island routes, news company runs,
all other long runs) will be equipped with safety
bars. All new vehicles will be equipped with
vents in the cabs. All new vehicles will also be
equipped with an opening window in both cab

doors.
ours
leet, Bo

Ww York News I Ine

Very my y

Seqnee™ LES Ot 1

C7
Fér

i

an z % Gye * gree = Iecayunipee og sdhmeetotnns ore rene

Sa ch Tee

Feet a a

Mr. Murray SCHWARTZ
President

Newspaper & Mail Deliverers’ Union
41-18 27th Street

Long Island City, N.Y. 11101

October 26, 1981

Dear Mr. Schwartz:

Simultaneously herewith, a Memorandum of
Agreement was signed concerning the satisfac-
tion of a damage award against the Newspaper
and Mail Deliverers’ Union for an illegal work
stoppage.

When the six payments referred to in the
Memorandum have been made, given the con-
structive relationship and productivity improve-
ments developed between The News and the
Union during the period since the work stoppage
which led to the above damage award, The News
will not, under any circumstances, require addi-
tional payments.

It is understood, however, that nothing herein
shall be interpreted or construed to waiv> the
right of the New York News to receive damages
and penalties for any future violations of the
collective bargaining agreement or to seek and
obtain any and all other remedies available to it
for said violation.

GH truly Vi

iy L. Ther ct

Ge Nee York (Ket Ine.

Confirmed:
Newspaper Ney nf

xt wes ,
116

FUNDO000982


October 26, 1981

Mr. MurRAY SCHWARTZ

President

Newspaper & Mail Deliverers’ Union
41-18 27th Street

Long Island City, N.Y. 11101

Re: Newspoint Arbitrations

Dear Mr. Schwartz:

Newspoint written agreements.

Very truly yours,

7 . ewa York News Inc.

116

Se es — sect weet TR SOA ERO Mee AN de Nr hy tat At .
9 Sa aia oats SRESMEENE LORE FURS OT a gene

This letter shall confirm The News’ commit-
ment to abide by the arbitration award concern-
‘ ing the 48 inch height from the top of the skid.

Furthermore, The News will abide by all

October 26, 1981

Mr. MURRAY SCHWARTZ

President

Newspaper & Mail] Deliverers’ Union
41-18 27th Street

Long Island City, N.Y. 11101

Dear Mr. Schwartz:

In regard to the deletion of the memorandum
entitled “Effect of Labor Dispute on all eligibility
requirements” (contained in the 3/81/78-3/30/81
Agreement} should there be a problem in the

future arising thereunder, such Memorandum
shall be applicable.

Very truly yours,
Va hk Association of
New York City

New Yérk News Inc.

Hpvrerd Ac ifeoe.

New York Times Company

FUNDOO000983

- : ee * e ae
Pret tnathati odin Soman boten Hentheh Nt, Omg the ee te me me ea he '


“ee, 1 fhe * * > atymees t af ras St Re te te 4 > ats .
wate hE Rate STM ALL cet wade'o oot PTA SS TALAD Sich age SIO] BRR OATS male rea be vit ee ite Dew +

October 26, 1981

MR, MURRAY SCHWARTZ

President

Newspaper & Mail Deliverers’ Union
41-18 27th Street

‘Long Island City, N.Y. 11101

Re: Benefit Plan Eligibility
Dear Mr, Schwartz:
- Questions of eligibility for the Medill Plan

have been discussed with the Union.

Within thirty (80) days after ratification of
the contract, the Benefit Department will post
notice to employees of such rules of eligibility.

Very truly you

Vlora ssae

118

i
‘

a gts athe a es Oe a My ae ay ee aoe pe eS
+

ee? Oa

Lod

‘|
4 -
moe , Seen tel t +" ¥

ee Ne ee :
«

a a itn wtf atime twee

October 26, 1981
Mr. MURRAY SCHWARTZ
President
Newspaper & Mail Deliverers’ Union
41-18 27th Street
Long Island City, N.Y. 11101

_- Re: Credit Union Checkoff

Dear Mr. Schwartz:

The Publisher agrees to deduct from the wages
of regular situation holders uniform weekly
amounts for a reasonable period of time desig-
nated by the employee after the employee exe-
cutes a written assignment satisfactory to the
Publisher.

The Publisher agrees to remit such moneys to
the Graphic Arts Federal Credit Union.

Very truly yours,
Cpegeng b. Theta

WewdYork News Inc.

119

SE ah enon colada Tod thea

FUNDOO00984


October 26, 1981

Mr. MurRRAY SCHWARTZ

President

Newspaper & Mail Deliverers’ Union
41-18 27th Street

Long Island City, N.Y. 11101

Re: Clarification of Method and Extent

Dear Mr. Schwartz:

The Publishers acknowledge that the collective
bargaining agreement prohibits the subcontract-
ing of bargaining unit deliveries except as it
may exist pursuant to the contract.

Very truly yours,

a VA

Publishers’ Association of
New York ss

ioe & Tes

New York Times Company

Murnos ebb

Newspaper & Maly’ Delivergff’ Ufion “

CONFIRMED:

120

‘ ry
em ine taettanaty wad

oe

October 26, 1981

5 sailed
en Be og Rae

Mr. MURRAY SCHWAR
President

Newspaper & Mail Deliverers’ Union
41-18 27th Street

Long Island City, N.Y. 11101

Dear Mr. Schwartz:

The Times will continue its present practice
of issuing separate vacation checks.

Annually, the Times will provide each em-
ployee a statement of the number of shifts to be
credited to the Joint Pension Fund for the
employee during the prior calendar year.

CO iad eS

Very truly yours,

For New York Times Company

121

i ian i a ad

FUNDOO000985
 he



Mr. Murray Scuwartz
President

Newspaper & Mail Deliverers’ Union
41-18 27th Street |

Long Island City, N.Y. 11101

October 26, 1981

Dear Mr. Schwartz:

When the planned DEC System ts installed
and operational, The News will issue separate
checks for vacation pay for periods of vacation
of 10 days or more,

When the planned DEC System is installed and
operational, The News will provide an annual
statement of shifts for which contributions were
made for the employee to the Joint Pension
Fund with or on the employee’s annual W-2.,

Annually, The News will provide to the Joint
Pension Fund and to inquiring employees a
) Statement of credited shifts for which contribu-
tions were not made for employees, to the Joint
Pension Fund,

Prior to the DEC System becoming operational
The News will supply to the Joint Pension Fund
aid post in the office a list of number of shifts
for which contributions were made during the
prior calendar year for the employees to the
Joint Pension Fund. Inquiring employees will be
given a statement of such information.

Very truly Yours,

Caer ‘. Metin
122

York News Ine.

ld alan ll ae Oi ten aad ? ah aay pe

i

Page 68 of 70

October 26, 1981

Mr, Murray ScHWARTZ

President

Newspaper & Mail Deliverers’ Union
41-18 27th Street

Long Island City, N.Y. 11101

Dear Mr. Schwartz:

Retroactive payments in a separate check for
the first year wage increase of this Agreement
will be made not later than thirty (80) days
after ratification of this Agreement, except if
delayed because of an emergency or Act of God.

Very truly yours, .

SI

Publishers’ Association of
New York

a

New York Times Company

128

Se ahh nt nee na a ae

FUNDOO00986
 a =, gt & we ey ao te e . ‘y ‘ . Me

: ree ge . o fee 4.4 te ote te oe te
-* oa Pweet SA SADE it “ * rn 1 Sa Foye te kylie ot ag tat gta tal

i Te altahcate OTD AI Chao) ol HB Lobe DT LET ME ny oe sete otal e le et ey weet ww tn



LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
Re: New York News Sub-Committee

Incident to the negotiation of the present Col-
lective Bargaining Committee, members of the
New York .News Sub-Committee met with repre-
sentatives of the Company and discussed and
agreed upon the following: .

A. Brooklyn

1, The Union requested that the Company
order vans with side doors and was advised that
such vans would be ordered.

2. The Union expressed concern regarding con-
ditions at the plant and it was agreed that the
Company shared the same concern and would
explore the purchase and use of dehumidifiers.

3. It was agreed that the men in the Brooklyn
plant would be paid the same as the men in the
New York plant for handling three-part inserts
(500 or more).

B. New York

The Company indicated that new trucks had
been ordered and that vans with side doors were.
already ordered.

C. News P. int

1. The Company agreed to provide “sixers”
for Newspoint night men in the same percentage
as they are currently available to the Newspoint
day shift.

2. The Company agreed that five jobs would
124

TEE

rs
me:
»
*
Pg
ez
as
AB,
as
we
+
tes
g
#
‘
2
*
a,
%

‘
BR

+ Mk

\

wae

be defined when posted (Job Clarification). These
jobs are identified as:

(1) Hi-Lo job;

(2) Console Room;
(8) Clerk;

(4) New York Man;
(5) Brooklyn Man.

3. The Union agreed to meet and discuss the
printing of commercial sheets,

4, The Company and the Union agreed to meet
within thirty (30) days to diseuss shop level
problems.

Dated: November 3, 1978

For the Company: ’ For the Union:

125

FUNDO000987


. . . . in. abe,
- ae att we. " ental a Relea tibeice diten Imbel dese adimtace tte wade No pe et

Re: New York Times Sub-Committee

Incident to the negotiation of the present Col- [¢

lective Bargaining Committee, members of the qa

rey New York Times Sub-Committee met with repre- 4g

yo sentatives of the Company and discussed and
agreed upon the following:

| LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING le
z:

1. Two new console jobs will be created at the
Carlstadt facility (one day job; one night job).

2. A new Atlantic City run will be created. It
will be a six-day run with an 11:00 p.m. start
and will be posted for inter-shop bidding,

3. The manning at 48rd Street will be reviewed
within a reasonable time after ratification of
the contract, but in no event later than sixty
(60) days.

Dated: November 3, 1978

For the Company: For the Union: i

’
J
_ fe i” j . " 1

Tog Ha$ |

:
pj fe
Meg
: - :
: f
;
| 126
2
i
t
a -
ie) Lge ~
pe ae ome we
1 | SRR en aR Mees oq < oe 1 thetete

4 Pads! Paley & ats, ae ae

e

FUNDOO000988