

Exhibit 1



MORTGAGE LOAN PURCHASE AGREEMENT

among

EMC MORTGAGE CORPORATION

as a Mortgage Loan Seller

MORGAN STANLEY MORTGAGE CAPITAL HOLDINGS LLC

as a Mortgage Loan Seller

and

BEAR STEARNS ASSET BACKED SECURITIES I LLC

as Purchaser

Dated as of

July 6, 2007

[TPW: NYLEGAL:688702.10] 17297-00533 11/26/2007 07:47 PM


TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page

SECTION 1. Defimitions......0...ccscccsccsescssesseseesssececcesssesssseessssstrecssvecsasscsesonsesonsesees cuceviea sents’ ores oe
SECTION 2. Purchase and Sale of the Mortgage Loans and Related Rights......c.cccccccscssesesesevoees 6
SECTION 3. Mortgage Loan Schedule ...........ccccccsccssssssesescsstscsatecnsvontecsscstsensesesconeccessusevsevsesuanscess 6
SECTION 4. Mortgage Loan Transfer. .......cc.ccccceecessesseenceecssccecscesseressecessesdcnsssnessesevseecsseneersesacares 6
SECTION 5. Examination of Mortgage Files..........cccccccccssseccesscessessenssocsssesedsessceeseceecesstecsssessests 8
SECTION 6. Recordation of Assignments of Mortgage. ..........:cccsscccsscesscescceesceseseecenssccesseeesrseseess 8
SECTION 7. Representations and Warranties Concerning EMC ..........cccccsssssssseeseesesesceseessesseens 10
SECTION 8. Representations and Warranties of EMC Concerning the EMC Mortgage

LOANS vies cccesecaccesanctssiavesnecotcsucdasceveceussesceatisessbatsecsuaesecceatenbadcedstesTeusbincsaves dvasuvaedesastoos 11
SECTION 9. Representations and Warranties Concerning MSMCH . 0... eeesceeseeessssetesseses 11
SECTION 10. Representations and Warranties of MSMCH Concerning the Mortgage

LOADS......cccccsssecssscsstecessssscesesssecsecasceececseeserssetaatensensesesscescsessessssacessuscensutssosscesuasenecs 12
SECTION 11. Assignment of Bring Down Letters from Accredited Home Lenders, Inc.

and Fremont Investment & Lan ........cccccccccccsscsssscsssseesssecsseescenssecersssseesscosacees veel 8
SECTION 12. [Reserved] .........cccccseecssscstesesssssncesssessscsesecsssastecssecsedsesseessanseesteesssesenscecssessasveesuntes 19
SECTION 13. Representations and Warranties Concerning the Purchaser ........:.c..cccessssesesesestes 19
SECTION 14. Conditions to Closing.........cccccccccccssscessesesscsssescssecsesseassecesesecseccssssctscconsasesneeseneces 20
SECTION 15. Fees and Expenses .0.0...cccccccecccsscesseesnesscascacessecsscessacecsecsasenescatecsensnsecseasaneeecensetecs 22
SECTION 16. Accountants” Letters. ........cc.cccccecccescesssceessteseeseseceqenscessscensseesceessusestecescetensnsesseeens 22
SECTION 17. [Reserved]. ........cccccccccccsssccsseccsssssscscessscsnsecscssessuccasesessscesscsaceseessessssvesssescssteususesaces 22
SECTION 18. Notices ......cccccccccsccsssscsssescesscessscecescesssecscoecsssesenscesnaseecssenscesseeecstsensccscestavesensesenss 22
SECTION 19.. Transfer of Mortgage Loans ..........cccccceccssesssscseseccssesconsesssesseesssensscestececscesecsessceseee 22
SECTION 20. Termination. ..........cccccccccccesssessscsscesesecessessteetesueneessesssesensenesseecenscesscusstensuseseesesaees 23
SECTION 21. Representations, Warranties and Agreements to Survive Delivery..............c.0008 23
SECTION 22. Severability 0... esscecescesseceseeeseceseneeenseeees biveseestevadsosauoconacsusvetstaiscvscescecswiess 23
SECTION 23. Counterparts ....0c..cccccccecscsesssescecccecssecessnceesecerccssateceseseecseesseesensesesesseeeescesuessesssseess 23
SECTION 24. Amendment .........00.c:cccsccsccccessscsssccesecensessccetessssesssensecesesensesseestacstsecseseseesensesseacsees 23
SECTION 25. GOVERNING LAW. .....ccccccccecescescsesssscresceesecsacsusssseesssecsessesasenseessensaveceenseesteneacees 23
SECTION 26. Further Assurances.......c.ccccccccccccsscesscesseesssesssestessstsnecsesasensceseeceeeessevseueteessuenevsseunecs 23
SECTION 27. Successors and ASSIQNS..........0...cccccccssseeesesessecscesceceatesssscecsestsuecessanessveseeccnseaeansvsnes 23
SECTION 28. The Mortgage Loan Sellers ......c...cccccceccscscessessesssessesessecssesteesseessessseseecessevenssvenses 24
SECTION 29. Entire Agreement ...........cccccccessscsccseseseesscsssessesesessesceseceseessessecssesensetecssesnsuueesess 24
SECTION 30. No Partnership........:..ccccsccsccssssssesccsscececsessesccesscsecetensscsrseceseetecsssueesteseessceceuceuvenseaess 24

EXHIBITS AND SCHEDULE TO
MORTGAGE LOAN PURCHASE AGREEMENT

Exhibit 1 Contents of Mortgage File
Exhibit 2 Mortgage Loan Schedule (All Loans)
Exhibit 3 Underlying EMC Purchase Agreement
-2-

[TPW: NYLEGAL:688702. 10] 17297-00533 11/26/2007 07:47 PM


Exhibit 4 [Reserved]

Exhibit 5 [Reserved]

Exhibit 6 Schedule of Lost Notes

Exhibit 7 [Reserved]

Exhibit 8 Accredited Assignment, Assumption and Recognition Agreement
Schedule A Required Ratings for Each Class of Certificates

[TPW: NYLEGAL:688702.10] 17297-00533 . 11/26/2007 07:47 PM



MORTGAGE LOAN PURCHASE AGREEMENT

This MORTGAGE LOAN PURCHASE AGREEMENT, dated as of July 6, 2007,
as amended and supplemented by any and all amendments hereto (collectively, this _

“Agreement”), is by and among EMC MORTGAGE CORPORATION, a Delaware corporation
(“EMC” or a “Mortgage Loan Seller”), MORGAN STANLEY MORTGAGE CAPITAL
HOLDINGS LLC, a New York limited liability company (““MSMCH” or a “Mortgage Loan
Seller”, and together with EMC, the “Mortgage Loan Sellers”) and BEAR STEARNS ASSET
BACKED SECURITIES I LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (the “Purchaser”).

Upon the terms and subject to the conditions of this Agreement, each Mortgage
Loan Seller agrees to sell, and the Purchaser agrees to purchase, certain conventional, closed-
end, subprime, fixed rate and adjustable rate, first and second lien mortgage loans secured by
one- to four-family residences (collectively, the “Mortgage Loans”) as described herein. The
Purchaser intends to deposit the Mortgage Loans into a trust fund (the “Trust Fund”) and create
Morgan Stanley Structured Trust I 2007-1, Asset-Backed Certificates, Series 2007-1 (the
Certificates”), under a pooling and servicing agreement, to be dated as of June 1, 2007 (the
“Pooling and Servicing Agreement”), among the Purchaser, as depositor, Wells Fargo Bank,
National Association, as master servicer (in such capacity, the “Master Servicer’) and securities
administrator (in such capacity, the “Securities Administrator’) and Deutsche Bank National
Trust Company, as trustee (the ““Trustee”).

The Purchaser has filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the
“Commission”) a registration statement on Form S-3 (Number 333-131374) relating to its Asset-
Backed Certificates and the offering of certain series thereof (including certain classes of the
Certificates) from time to time in accordance with Rule 415 under the Securities Act of 1933, as
amended, and the rules and regulations of the Commission promulgated thereunder (the
“Securities Act”). Such registration statement, when it became effective under the Securities Act,
and the prospectus relating to the public offering of certain classes of the Certificates by the
Purchaser (the “Public Offering”), as each may be amended or supplemented from time to time
pursuant to the Securities Act or otherwise, are referred to herein as the “Registration Statement”
and the “Prospectus,” respectively. The “Free Writing Prospectus” shall mean the free writing
prospectus, dated June 29, 2007, relating to certain classes of the Certificates. The “Prospectus
Supplement” shall mean the final supplement, dated July 5, 2007, to the Prospectus, dated June
26, 2007, relating to certain classes of the Certificates. With respect to the Public Offering of
certain classes of the Certificates, Bear, Stearns & Co. Inc. (“Bear Stearns”) and the Purchaser
have entered into a terms agreement, dated as of June 29, 2007, to an underwriting agreement,
dated April 13, 2006 (together, the “Underwriting Agreement”) between Bear Stearns and the
. Purchaser.

Now, therefore, in consideration of the premises and the mutual agreements set
forth herein, the parties hereto agree as follows:

SECTION 1. Definitions. Certain terms are defined herein. Capitalized
terms used herein but not defined herein shall have the meanings specified in the Pooling and
Servicing Agreement. The following other terms are defined as follows: |

[TPW: NYLEGAL:688702.10] 17297-00533 11/26/2007 07:47 PM



Aames Capital Mortgage Loans: The Mortgage Loans identified as such on the
Mortgage Loan Schedule which were originated by Aames Capital Corporation.

_ Accredited Assignment, Assumption and Recognition Agreement: The
assignment, assumption and recognition agreement, dated as of July 6, 2007, among EMC, the
Purchaser and Accredited.

Accredited Mortgage Loans: -The Mortgage Loans identified as such on the
Mortgage Loan Schedule which were originated by Accredited.

Acquisition Price: With respect to EMC and the sale of the EMC Mortgage

Loans, cash in an amount equal to $ i (plus $ . in accrued interest).
With respect to MSMCH and the sale of the MSMCH Mortgage Loans, cash in an amount equal
to of (plus $. in accrued interest).

Aegis Mortgage ‘Loans: The Mortgage Loans identified as such on the Mortgage
Loan Schedule which were originated by Aegis Mortgage Corporation.

Closing Date: July 6, 2007.

Covered Loan: A Mortgage Loan categorized as Covered pursuant to Appendix E
of Standard & Poor’s Glossary.

Cut-off Date: June 1, 2007.

Cut-off Date Balance: Shall mean $735,100,463.83.

Deleted Mortgage Loan: A Mortgage Loan replaced or to be replaced by a
Replacement Mortgage Loan.

Decision One Mortgage Loans: The Mortgage Loans identified as such on the
Mortgage Loan Schedule which were originated by Decision One Mortgage Company, LLC.

- Deutsche Bank Custodial Agreement: An agreement, dated as of July 6, 2007,
among the Depositor, EMC, MSMCH, the Master Servicer, the Securities Administrator, the
Trustee and Deutsche Bank National Trust Company as custodian (in such capacity, the
“Custodian

Due Date: As to any Mortgage Loan, the date in each month on which the related
Scheduled Payment is due, as set forth in the related Mortgage Note.

EMC Mortgage Loans: Any loan on the Mortgage Loan Schedule indicated as
having been sold by EMC.

First NLC Mortgage Loans: The Mortgage Loans identified as such on the
Mortgage Loan Schedule which were originated by First NLC Financial Services, LLC.

Please contact Bear Stearns or MSMCH, as applicable, for pricing information.
2

[TPW: NYLEGAL:688702.10] 17297-00533 11/26/2007 07:47 PM


Fremont Mortgage Loans: The Mortgage Loans identified as such on the
Mortgage Loan Schedule which were originated by Fremont Investment & Loan.

High Cost Loan: A Mortgage Loan (a) covered by the Home Ownership and

Equity Protection Act of 1994 (“HOEPA”), (b) classified as a “high cost home,” “threshold,”
“covered,” (excluding New Jersey “Covered Home Loans” as that term was defined in clause (1)
of the definition of that term in the New Jersey Home Ownership Security Act of 2002 that were
originated between November 26, 2003 and July 7, 2004), “high risk home,” “predatory” or
similar loan under any other applicable state, federal or local law which expressly exposes
assignees of mortgage loans to civil or criminal liability or damages or to regulatory action or
enforcement proceedings or penalties, or (c) categorized as High Cost pursuant to Appendix E of
Standard & Poor’s Glossary.

MERS: Mortgage Electronic Registration Systems, Inc., a corporation organized
and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware, or any successor thereto.

MERS® System: The system of recording transfers of Mortgages electronically
maintained by MERS.

Meritage Mortgage Loans: The Mortgage Loans identified as such on the
Mortgage Loan Schedule which were originated by Meritage Mortgage Corporation.

MILA Mortgage Loans: The Mortgage Loans identified as such on the Mortgage
Loan Schedule which were originated by MILA, Inc.

Moody’s: Moody’s Investors Service, Inc., or its successors in interest.

Mortgage: The mortgage, deed of trust or other instrument creating a first or
second lien on or first or second priority ownership interest in an estate in fee simple in real
property securing a Mortgage Note.

Mortgage File: The items referred to in Exhibit 1 pertaining to a particular
Mortgage Loan and any additional documents required to be added to such documents pursuant
to this Agreement.

Mortgage Loan: Certain fixed and adjustable rate, conventional, closed-end sub-
prime mortgage loans that are secured by first and second liens on one- to four-family residential
properties and certain other assets as described in the Prospectus Supplement.

Mortgage Loan Schedule: The schedule of Mortgage Loans setting forth the
following information with respect to each Mortgage Loan: (1) the related Seller’s Mortgage
Loan identifying number; (2) [reserved]; (3) the city, state and zip code of the Mortgaged
Property; (4) [reserved]; (5) the number and type of residential units constituting the Mortgaged
Property (e.g. single family residence, a two- to four-family dwelling, condominium, planned
unit development or cooperative); (6) the original months to maturity or the remaining months to
maturity from the Cut-off Date, in any case based on the original amortization schedule and, if
different, the maturity expressed in the same manner but based on the actual amortization
schedule; (7) with respect to each First Lien Loan, the Loan-to- Value Ratio at origination, and

3

[TPW: NYLEGAL:688702.10] 17297-00533 11/26/2007 07:47 PM


with respect to each Second Lien Loan, the combined loan-to-value ratio (the “CLTV”) at .
origination; (8) the Mortgage Rate and the Net Mortgage Rate as of the Cut-off Date; (9) the date
on which the first Monthly Payment was due on the Mortgage Loan and, if such date is not
consistent with the Due Date currently in effect, the Due Date; (10) the stated maturity date; (11)
the amount of the Monthly Payment as of the Cut-off Date; (12) [reserved]; (13) the original
principal amount of the Mortgage Loan; (14) the actual principal balance of the Mortgage Loan
as of the close of business on the Cut-off Date, after deduction of payments of principal collected
on or before the Cut-off Date; (15) with respect-to Adjustable Rate Mortgage Loans, the Interest
Rate Adjustment Date; (16) with respect to Adjustable Rate Mortgage Loans, the Gross Margin;
(17) with respect to Adjustable Rate Mortgage Loans, the Periodic Rate Cap, if applicable, under
the terms of the Mortgage Note; (18) [reserved]; (19) the type of Mortgage Loan (i.e., Fixed or
Adjustable Rate Mortgage Loan, First or Second Lien Loan); (20) a code indicating the purpose
of the loan (i.e., purchase, rate/term refinance or cash-out refinance); (21) the Servicing Fee
Rate; (22) the LPMI Fee, if applicable; (23) the Master Servicing Fee Rate; (24) the MIN with
respect to each MOM Loan; (25) with respect to Adjustable Rate Mortgage Loans, the Maximum
Mortgage Rate, if applicable; (26) with respect to Adjustable Rate Mortgage Loans, the
Minimum Mortgage Rate, if applicable; (27) which Mortgage Loans adjust after an initial
fixed-rate period of one, two, three, five, seven or ten years or any other period; (28) the
Prepayment Charge, if any; (29) a code indicating whether the Mortgage Loan is has a balloon
payment; (30) a code indicating whether the Mortgage Loan is an interest-only loan; (31) the.
interest-only term, if applicable; (32) the related Seller; and (33) the original amortization term.
The Mortgage Loan Schedule is attached as Exhibit 2 hereto. |

Mortgage Rate: The annual rate of interest borne by a Mortgage Note as stated

herein.
Mortgagor: The obligor(s) on a Mortgage Note.

MSMCH Mortgage Loans: Any Mortgage Loan on the Mortgage Loan Schedule
indicated as having been sold by MSMCH.

MSMCH Represented Mortgage Loans: Any Mortgage Loan on the Mortgage
Loan Schedule indicated as having been originated by Aames Capital Corporation, Aegis
Mortgage Corporation, Decision One Mortgage Company, LLC, First NLC Financial Services,
LLC, MILA, Inc., New Century Mortgage Corporation, Option One Mortgage Corporation or
Wilmington Finance Inc.

Net Mortgage Rate: As to each Mortgage Loan, and at any time, the per annum
rate equal to the Mortgage Rate less the sum of (i) the Servicing Fee Rate, (ii) the Trustee Fee
Rate, if any, and (iii) the rate at which the LPMI Fee is calculated, if any.

New Century Mortgage Loans: The Mortgage Loans identified as such on the
Mortgage Loan Schedule which were originated by New Century Mortgage Corporation.

Opinion of Counsel: A written opinion of counsel, who may be counsel for the
Mortgage Loan Sellers or the Purchaser, reasonably acceptable to the Trustee.

[TPW: NYLEGAL:688702.10] 17297-00533 11/26/2007 07:47 PM


Option One Mortgage Loans: The Mortgage Loans identified as such on the
Mortgage Loan Schedule which were originated by Option One Mortgage Corporation.

Person: Any legal person, including any individual, corporation, partnership, joint

venture, association, joint stock company, trust, unincorporated organization or government or
any agency or political subdivision thereof.

Piggyback Loan: A second lien Mortgage Loan originated by the same originator
to the same borrower at the same time as the first lien Mortgage Loan, each secured by the same
Mortgaged Property.

Purchase Price: With respect to any Mortgage Loan required to be purchased by
EMC or MSMCH pursuant to the applicable provisions of this Agreement, an amount equal to
the sum of (i) 100% of the principal remaining unpaid on such Mortgage Loan as of the date of
purchase (including if a foreclosure has already occurred, the principal balance of the related
Mortgage Loan at the time the Mortgaged Property was acquired), net of any Servicing
Advances and Advances attributable to principal and payable to the purchaser of the Mortgage
Loan if such purchaser is also the servicer of such Mortgage Loan, (ii) accrued and unpaid
interest thereon at the applicable Mortgage Rate through and including the last day of the month
of such purchase, net of any portion of the Servicing Fee and any Servicing Advances and
Advances attributable to interest that is payable to the purchaser of the Mortgage Loan if such |
purchaser is also the servicer of such Mortgage Loan, plus (iii) any costs and damages (if any)
incurred by the Purchaser in connection with any violation of such Mortgage Loan of any anti-
predatory lending laws.

Rating Agencies: Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s, each a “Rating Agency.”

Replacement Mortgage Loan: A mortgage loan substituted for a Deleted
Mortgage Loan which must meet on the date of such substitution the requirements stated herein;
upon such substitution, such mortgage loan shall be a “Mortgage Loan” hereunder.

Standard & Poor’s: Standard & Poor’s, a division of The McGraw-Hill
Companies, Inc. or its successors in interest.

Underlying EMC Purchase Agreement: The Mortgage Loan Purchase and
Warranties Agreement, dated May 1, 2007, between EMC and MSMCH.

Value: The value of the Mortgaged Property at the time of origination of the
related Mortgage Loan, such value being the lesser of (i) the value of such property set forth in
an appraisal accepted by the applicable originator of the Mortgage Loan or (ii) the sales price of
such property at the time of origination.

Wells Fargo: Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, or its successors in

interest.

Wells Fargo Custodial Agreement: An agreement, dated as of July 6, 2007,
among the Depositor, EMC, MSMCH, the Master Servicer, the Securities Administrator, the

5

[TPW: NYLEGAL:688702.10] 17297-00533 11/26/2007 07:47 PM



Trustee and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association as custodian (in such capacity, the -
“Custodian”).

Wilmington Finance Mortgage Loans: The Mortgage Loans identified as such on
the Mortgage Loan Schedule which were originated by Wilmington Finance Inc.

WMC Mortgage Loans: The Mortgage Loans identified as such on the Mortgage
Loan Schedule which were originated by WMC Mortgage Corp. —

SECTION 2. Purchase and Sale of the Mortgage Loans and Related

Rights.

(a) Upon satisfaction of the conditions set forth in Section 11 hereof, each
Mortgage Loan Seller agrees to sell, and the Purchaser agrees to purchase, Mortgage Loans sold
by such Mortgage Loan Seller having an aggregate outstanding principal balance as of the Cut-
off Date equal to the Cut-off Date Balance, and such Mortgage Loan Seller’s interest, if any, in
the Swap Agreements.

(b) — The closing for the purchase and sale of the Mortgage Loans and the
closing for the issuance of the Certificates will take place on the Closing Date at the office of the
Purchaser’s counsel in New York, New York or such other place as the parties shall agree.

(c) Upon the satisfaction of the conditions set forth in Section 11 hereof, on
the Closing Date, the Purchaser shall pay to each respective Mortgage Loan Seller the related
Acquisition Price for the Mortgage Loans sold by such Mortgage Loan Seller in immediately
available funds by wire transfer to such account or accounts as shall be designated by such
Mortgage Loan Seller.

SECTION 3. Mortgage Loan Schedule. Each of EMC and MSMCH
agrees to provide to the Purchaser as of the date hereof a listing of the Mortgage Loans (the
“Mortgage Loan Schedule”) setting forth the information listed on Exhibit 2 to this Agreement
with respect to each of the Mortgage Loans being sold by the respective Mortgage Loan
Sellers. The Mortgage Loan Schedule shall be delivered to the Purchaser on the Closing Date
and shall be in form and substance mutually agreed to by EMC, MSMCH and the Purchaser.

SECTION 4. Mortgage Loan Transfer.

(a) __ The Purchaser will be entitled to all scheduled payments of principal and
interest on the Mortgage Loans due after the Cut-off Date (regardless of when actually collected)
and all payments thereof. Each Mortgage Loan Seller will be entitled to all scheduled payments
of principal and interest on the Mortgage Loans sold by it to the Purchaser due on or before the
Cut-off Date (including payments collected after the Cut-off Date) and all payments thereof.
Such principal amounts and any interest thereon belonging to the related Mortgage Loan Seller
as described above will not be included in the aggregate outstanding principal balance of the
Mortgage Loans as of the Cut-off Date as set forth on the Mortgage Loan Schedule.

(b) — Pursuant to various conveyancing documents to be executed on the
Closing Date and pursuant to the Pooling and Servicing Agreement, the Purchaser will assign on

6

[TPW: NYLEGAL:688702.10] 17297-00533 11/26/2007 07:47 PM


the Closing Date all of its right, title and interest in and to the Mortgage Loans to the Trustee for
the benefit of the Certificateholders. In connection with the transfer and assignment of the
Mortgage Loans, each Mortgage Loan Seller has delivered or will deliver or cause to be
delivered to the Trustee, or the related Custodian on behalf of the Trustee, by the Closing Date or-

such later date as is agreed to by the Purchaser and such Mortgage Loan Seller (each of the
Closing Date and such later date is referred to as a “Mortgage File Delivery Date”), the items of
each Mortgage File, provided, however, that in lieu of the foregoing, each Mortgage Loan Seller
may deliver the following documents, under the circumstances set forth below: (x) in lieu of the
original Mortgage, assignments to the Trustee or intervening assignments thereof which have
been delivered, are being delivered or will upon receipt of recording information relating to the
Mortgage required to be included thereon, be delivered to recording offices for recording and
have not been returned in time to permit their delivery as specified above, the related Mortgage
Loan Seller may deliver a true copy thereof with a certification, on the face of such copy,
substantially as follows: “Certified to be a true and correct copy of the original;” (y) in lieu of the
Mortgage, assignments to the Trustee or intervening assignments thereof, if the applicable
jurisdiction retains the originals of such documents or if the originals are lost (in each case, as
evidenced by a certification to such effect), such Mortgage Loan Seller may deliver photocopies
of such documents containing an original certification by the judicial or other governmental
authority of the jurisdiction where such documents were recorded; and (z) in lieu of the
Mortgage Notes relating to the Mortgage Loans, each identified in the list delivered by the
Purchaser to the Trustee on the Closing Date and attached hereto as Exhibit 6 the related
Mortgage Loan Seller may deliver lost note affidavits and indemnities of such Mortgage Loan
Seller; and provided further, however, that in the case of Mortgage Loans which have been
prepaid in full after the Cut-off Date and prior to the Closing Date, such Mortgage. Loan Seller,
in lieu of delivering the above documents, may deliver to the Trustee a certification by such
Mortgage Loan Seller or the Master Servicer to such effect. Each Mortgage Loan Seller shall
deliver such original documents (including any original documents as to which certified copies
had previously been delivered) or such certified copies to the Trustee, or the related Custodian on
behalf of the Trustee, promptly after they are received. EMC or MSMCH, as applicable, shall
cause the Mortgage and intervening assignments, if any, and the assignment of the Mortgage to
be recorded not later than 180 days after the Closing Date unless such assignment is not required
to be recorded under the terms set forth in Section 6(a) hereof. ,

(c) In connection with the assignment of any Mortgage Loan registered on the
MERS® System, EMC or MSMCH, as applicable, further agrees that it will cause, at EMC’s
own expense, within 30 days after the Closing Date, the MERS® System to indicate that such
Mortgage Loans have been assigned by the related Mortgage Loan Seller to the Purchaser and by
the Purchaser to the Trustee in accordance with this: Agreement for the benefit of the
Certificateholders by including (or deleting, in the case of Mortgage Loans which are
repurchased in accordance with this Agreement) in such computer files (a) the code in the field
which identifies the specific Trustee and (b) the code in the field “Pool Field” which identifies
the series of the Certificates issued in connection with such Mortgage Loans. EMC or MSMCH,
as applicable, further agrees that it will not, and will not permit the Master Servicer to, and the
Master Servicer agrees that it will not, alter the codes referenced in this paragraph with respect to
any Mortgage Loan during the term of the Pooling and Servicing Agreement unless and until

[TPW: NYLEGAL-688702.10] 17297-00533 11/26/2007 07:47 PM


such Mortgage Loan is. repurchased in accordance with the terms of the Pooling and Servicing
Agreement.

SECTION 5. Examination of Mortgage Files.

(a) On or before the Mortgage File Delivery Date, each Mortgage Loan Seller
will have made the related Mortgage Files available to the Purchaser or its agent for examination
which may be at the offices of the Trustee or such Mortgage Loan Seller and/or such Mortgage
Loan Seller’s custodian. The fact that the Purchaser or its agent has conducted or has failed to
conduct any partial or complete examination of the related Mortgage Files shall not affect the
Purchaser’s rights to demand cure, repurchase, substitution or other relief as provided in this
Agreement. In furtherance of the foregoing, each Mortgage Loan Seller shall make the related
Mortgage Files available to the Purchaser or its agent from time to time so as to permit the
Purchaser to confirm such Mortgage Loan Seller’s compliance with the delivery and recordation
requirements of this Agreement. In addition, upon request of the Purchaser, each Mortgage Loan
Seller agrees to provide to the Purchaser, Bear Stearns and to any investors or prospective
investors in the Certificates information regarding the Mortgage Loans and their servicing, to

- make the related Mortgage Files available to the Purchaser, Bear Stearns and to such investors or
prospective investors (which may be at the offices of the related Mortgage Loan Seller and/or
such Mortgage Loan Seller’s custodian) and to make available personnel knowledgeable about
the related Mortgage Loans for discussions with the Purchaser, Bear Stearns and such investors
or prospective investors, upon reasonable request during regular business hours, sufficient to
permit the Purchaser, Bear Stearns and such investors or potential investors to conduct such due
diligence as any such party reasonably believes is appropriate.

(b) At the time of any substitution, EMC or MSMCH, as applicable, shall
deliver or cause to be delivered the Replacement Mortgage Loan, the related Mortgage File and
any other documents and payments required to be delivered in connection with a substitution
pursuant to this Agreement. At the time of any purchase or substitution, the Trustee shall (i)
assign the selected Mortgage Loan to EMC or MSMCH, as applicable, and shall release or cause
the related Custodian to release the documents (including, but not limited to, the Mortgage,
Mortgage Note and other contents of the Mortgage File) in the possession of the Trustee or the
related Custodian, as applicable relating to the Deleted Mortgage Loan and (ii) execute and
deliver such instruments of transfer or assignment, in each case without recourse, as shall be
necessary to vest in EMC or MSMCH, as applicable, title to such Deleted Mortgage Loan.

SECTION 6. Recordation of Assignments of Mortgage.

(a) | EMC or MSMCH, as applicable, will, promptly after the Closing Date,
cause each Mortgage and each assignment of Mortgage from the applicable Mortgage Loan
Seller to the Trustee, and all unrecorded intervening assignments, if any, delivered on or prior to
the Closing Date, to be recorded in all recording offices in the jurisdictions where the related
Mortgaged Properties are located; provided, however, neither EMC nor MSMCH need cause to
be recorded any assignment which relates to a Mortgage Loan that is a MOM Loan or for which
the related Mortgaged Property is located in any jurisdiction under the laws of which, as
evidenced by an Opinion of Counsel delivered by EMC or MSMCH, as applicable, to the
Trustee and the Rating Agencies, the recordation of such assignment is not necessary to protect

8

[TPW: NYLEGAL:688702.10] 17297-00533 11/26/2007 07:47 PM


the Trustee’s interest in. the related Mortgage Loan; provided, however, notwithstanding the
delivery of any Opinion of Counsel, each assignment of Mortgage shall be submitted for
recording by EMC or MSMCH, as applicable, in the manner described above, at no expense to

Certificates evidencing Percentage Interests aggregating not less than 25% of the Trust, (ii) the
occurrence of an Event of Default, (iii) the occurrence of a bankruptcy, insolvency or foreclosure
relating to EMC under the Pooling and Servicing Agreement, (iv) the occurrence of a servicing
transfer or an assignment of the servicing as described in Section 7.07 of the Pooling and
Servicing Agreement or (iv) with respect to any one assignment of Mortgage, the occurrence of a
bankruptcy, insolvency or foreclosure relating to the Mortgagor under the related Mortgage.

While each such Mortgage or assignment is being recorded, if necessary, EMC or
MSMCH, as applicable, shall leave or cause to be left with the Trustee or the related Custodian
on its behalf a certified copy of such Mortgage or assignment. In the event that, within 180 days
of the. Closing Date, the Trustee has not been provided with an Opinion of Counsel as described
above or received evidence of recording with respect to each Mortgage Loan delivered to the
Purchaser pursuant to the terms hereof or as set forth above and the related Mortgage Loan is not
a MOM Loan, the failure to provide evidence of recording or such Opinion of Counsel shall be
considered a Material Defect, and the provisions of Section 5(c) and (d) shall apply. All
customary recording fees and reasonable expenses relating to the recordation of the assignments
of mortgage to the Trustee or the Opinion of Counsel, as the case may be, shall be borne by
EMC.

(b) — It is the express intent of the parties hereto that the conveyance of the
Mortgage Loans by each Mortgage Loan Seller to the Purchaser, as contemplated by this
. Agreement be, and be treated as, a sale. It is, further, not the intention of the parties that such
conveyance be deemed a pledge of the Mortgage Loans by such Mortgage Loan Seller to the
Purchaser to secure a debt or other obligation of that Mortgage Loan Seller. However, in the
event that, notwithstanding the intent of the parties, the Mortgage Loans are held by a court to
continue to be property of such Mortgage Loan Seller, then (a) this Agreement shall also be
deemed to be a security agreement within the meaning of Articles 8 and 9 of the applicable
Uniform Commercial Code; (b) the transfer of the Mortgage Loans provided for herein shall be
deemed to be a grant by such Mortgage Loan Seller to the Purchaser of a security interest in all
of such Mortgage Loan Seller’s right, title and interest in and to the Mortgage Loans and all
amounts payable to the holders of the Mortgage Loans in accordance with the terms thereof and
all proceeds of the conversion, voluntary or involuntary, of the foregoing into cash, instruments,
securities or other property, to the extent the Purchaser would otherwise be entitled to own such
Mortgage Loans and proceeds pursuant to Section 4 hereof, including all amounts, other than
investment earnings, from time to time held or invested in any accounts created pursuant to the
Pooling and Servicing Agreement, whether in the form of cash, instruments, securities or other —
property; (c) the possession by the Purchaser or the Trustee (or the related Custodian on its
behalf) of Mortgage Notes and such other items of property as constitute instruments, money,
negotiable documents or chattel paper shall be deemed to be “possession by the secured party”
for purposes of perfecting the security interest pursuant to Section 9-305 (or comparable
provision) of the applicable Uniform Commercial Code; and (d) notifications to persons holding
such property, and acknowledgments, receipts or confirmations from persons holding such
property, shall be deemed notifications to, or acknowledgments, receipts or confirmations from,

9

[TPW: NYLEGAL:688702.10] 17297-00533 11/26/2007 07:47 PM


financial intermediaries, bailees or agents (as applicable) of the Purchaser for the purpose of
perfecting such security interest under applicable law. Any assignment of the interest of the
Purchaser pursuant to any provision hereof or pursuant to the Pooling and Servicing Agreement
shall also be deemed to be an assignment of any security interest created hereby. EMC or
MSMCH, as applicable, and the Purchaser shall, to the extent consistent with this Agreement,
take such actions as may be reasonably necessary to ensure that, if this Agreement were deemed
to create a security interest in the Mortgage Loans, such security interest would be deemed to be
a perfected security interest of first priority under applicable law and will be maintained as such
throughout the term of the Pooling and Servicing Agreement.

SECTION 7. Representations and Warranties Concerning EMC. As of
the date hereof and as of the Closing Date, EMC represents and warrants to the Purchaser and
MSMCH as to itself in the capacity indicated as follows:

(a) EMC (i) is a corporation duly organized, validly existing and in good
standing under the laws of the State of Delaware and (ii) is qualified and in good standing to do
business in each jurisdiction where such qualification is necessary, except where the failure so to
qualify would not reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect on EMC’s business
as presently conducted or on EMC’s ability to enter into this Agreement and to consummate the
transactions contemplated hereby;

(b) | EMC has full power to own its property, to carry on its business as
presently conducted and to enter into and perform its obligations under this Agreement;

(c) ~ The execution and delivery by EMC of this Agreement has been duly
authorized by all necessary action on the part of EMC; and neither the execution and delivery of
this Agreement, nor the consummation of the transactions herein contemplated, nor compliance
with the provisions hereof or thereof, will conflict with or result in a breach of, or constitute a
_ default under, any of the provisions of any law, governmental rule, regulation, judgment, decree
or order binding on EMC or its properties or the charter or by-laws of EMC, except those.
conflicts, breaches or defaults which would not reasonably be expected to have a material
adverse effect on EMC’s ability to enter into this Agreement and to consummate the transactions
contemplated hereby;

(d) The execution, delivery and performance by EMC of this Agreement and
the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby do not require the consent or
approval of, the giving of notice to, the registration with, or the taking of any other action in
respect of, any state, federal or other governmental authority or agency, except those consents,
approvals, notices, registrations or other actions as have already been obtained, given or made
and, in connection with the recordation of the Mortgages, powers of attorney or assignments of ©
Mortgages not yet completed;

(e) This Agreement has been duly executed and delivered by EMC and,
assuming due authorization, execution and delivery by the Purchaser or the parties thereto,
constitutes a valid and binding obligation of EMC enforceable against it in accordance with its
terms (subject to applicable bankruptcy and insolvency laws and other similar laws affecting the
enforcement of the rights of creditors generally);

10

[TPW: NYLEGAL:688702.10] 17297-00533 11/26/2007 07:47 PM


(f) There are no actions, suits or proceedings pending or, to the knowledge of
EMC, threatened against EMC, before or by any court, administrative agency, arbitrator or
governmental body (i) with respect to any of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement or
(ii) with respect to any other matter which in the judgment of EMC could reasonably be expected
‘to be determined adversely to. EMC and if determined adversely to EMC materially and
adversely affect EMC’s ability to perform its obligations under this Agreement; and EMC not in
default with respect to any order of any court, administrative agency, arbitrator or governmental
body so as to materially and adversely affect the transactions contemplated by this Agreement;
and

(g) The Mortgage Loan Seller’s Information (as defined in Section 14(a)
hereof) does not include any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact
necessary in order to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which they
were made, not misleading.

SECTION 8. ~ Representations and Warranties of EMC Concerning the
EMC Mortgage Loans. EMC hereby represents and warrants to the Purchaser as of the

Closing Date or such other date as may be specified below with respect to each EMC
Mortgage Loan:

(a) EMC is the sole owner of record and holder of the EMC Mortgage Loans
and the indebtedness evidenced by each Mortgage Note. The EMC Mortgage Loans are not
assigned or pledged, and EMC has good, indefeasible and marketable title thereto, and has full
right to transfer arid sell the EMC Mortgage Loans to the Purchaser free and clear of any
encumbrance, equity, participation interest, lien, pledge, charge, claim or security interest, and
has full right and authority to subject to no interest or participation of, or agreement with, any
other party, to sell and assign each EMC Mortgage Loan and following the sale of each EMC
Mortgage Loan, the Purchaser will own such EMC Mortgage Loan free and clear of any
encumbrance, equity, participation interest, lien, pledge, charge, claim or security interest.

SECTION 9. Representations and Warranties Concerning MSMCH. As
of the date hereof and as of the Closing Date, MSMCH represents and warrants to EMC and
the Purchaser as to itself in the capacity indicated as follows:

(a) © MSMCH (i) is a limited liability company duly organized, validly existing
and in good standing under the laws of the State of New York and (ii) is qualified and in good
standing to do business in each jurisdiction where such qualification is necessary, except where
the failure so to qualify would not reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect on
. MSMCH’s business as presently conducted or on MSMCH’s ability to enter into this Agreement
and to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby;

(b)  MSMCH has full power to own its property, to carry on its business as
presently conducted and to enter into and perform its obligations under this Agreement;

(c) The execution and delivery by MSMCH of this Agreement has been duly
authorized by all necessary action on the part of MSMCH; and neither the execution and delivery
of this Agreement, nor the consummation of the transactions herein contemplated, nor

1]

[TPW: NYLEGAL:688702. 10] 17297-00533 11/26/2007 07:47 PM


compliance with the provisions hereof or thereof, will conflict with or result in a breach of, or
constitute a default under, any of the provisions of any law, governmental rule, regulation,
judgment, decree or order binding on MSMCH or its properties or the written consent of the sole
' member or formation agreement of MSMCH, except those conflicts, breaches or defaults which
would not reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect on MSMCH’s ability to enter
into this Agreement and to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby;

(d) The execution, delivery and performance by MSMCH of this Agreement
and the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby do not require the consent or
approval of, the giving of notice to, the registration with, or the taking of any other action in
respect of, any state, federal or other governmental authority or agency, except those consents,
approvals, notices, registrations or other actions as have already been obtained, given or made
and, in connection with the recordation of the Mortgages, powers of attorney or assignments of
Mortgages not yet completed;

(e) This Agreement has been duly executed and delivered by MSMCH and,
assuming due authorization, execution and delivery by the Purchaser or the parties thereto,
constitutes a valid and binding obligation of MSMCH enforceable against it in accordance with
its terms (subject to applicable bankruptcy and insolvency laws and other similar laws affecting ©
the enforcement of the rights of creditors generally); and

(f) There are no actions, suits or proceedings pending or, to the knowledge of
MSMCH, threatened against MSMCH, before or by any court, administrative agency, arbitrator
or governmental body (i) with respect to any of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement
or (ii) with respect to any other matter which in the judgment of MSMCH could reasonably be
expected to be determined adversely to MSMCH and if determined adversely to MSMCH
materially and adversely affect MSMCH?’s ability to perform its obligations under this
Agreement; and MSMCH is not in default with respect to any order of any court, administrative
agency, arbitrator or governmental body so as to materially and adversely affect the transactions
contemplated by this Agreement.

SECTION 10. Representations and Warranties of MSMCH Concerning
the Mortgage Loans. MSMCH hereby represents and warrants to the Purchaser as of the.

Closing Date or such other date as may be specified below:

. (a) With respect to each Mortgage Loan:

(1) The information set forth in the Mortgage Loan Schedule relating
to the Mortgage Loans is complete, true and correct as of the Cut-off Date;

(2) Any and all requirements of any federal, state or local law
including, without limitation, usury, truth-in-lending, real estate settlement procedures, consumer
credit protection, equal credit opportunity, disclosure and all predatory, abusive and fair lending
laws applicable to the Mortgage Loan, including, without limitation, any provisions relating to
Prepayment Penalties, have been complied with, and the consummation of the transactions
contemplated hereby will not involve the violation of any such laws or regulations; and

12

[TPW: NYLEGAL:688702.10] 17297-00533 11/26/2007 07:47 PM


(3) No Mortgage Loan is a High Cost Loan or Covered Loan, as
applicable, and no Mortgage Loan originated on or after October 1, 2002 through March 6, 2003
is governed by the Georgia Fair Lending Act. No Mortgage Loan is covered by the Home
Ownership and Equity Protection Act of 1994 and no Mortgage Loan is_in violation of any—

"comparable state or local law.

- (b) With respect to the MSMCH Represented Mortgage Loans (except as
otherwise set forth in this subsection (b)):

(1) Except as set forth on the Mortgage Loan Schedule, (i) all
payments required to be made up to the Closing Date for the MSMCH Represented Mortgage
Loan under the terms of the Mortgage Note, other than payments not yet 30 days Delinquent,
have been made and credited, (ii) no payment required under the MSMCH Represented
Mortgage Loan has been 30 days or more Delinquent at any time since the origination of the
MSMCH Represented Mortgage Loan, and (iii) the first Monthly Payment was made with
respect to the MSMCH Represented Mortgage Loan on its related Due Date or within the grace

period, all in accordance with the terms of the related Mortgage Note;

(2). The MSMCH Represented Mortgage Loan is not subject to any
right of rescission, set-off, counterclaim or defense, including without limitation the defense of
usury, nor will the operation of any of the terms of the Mortgage Note or the Mortgage, or the
exercise of any right thereunder, render either the Mortgage Note or the Mortgage unenforceable,
in whole or in part and no such right of rescission, set-off, counterclaim or defense has been
asserted with respect thereto, and no Mortgagor was a debtor in any state or Federal bankruptcy
or insolvency proceeding at the time the MSMCH Represented Mortgage Loan was originated;

(3) Pursuant to the terms of the Mortgage, all buildings or other
improvements upon the Mortgaged Property are insured by a generally acceptable insurer against
loss by fire, hazards of extended coverage and such other hazards as are customarily insured
against in the jurisdiction where the related Mortgaged Property is located and acceptable to the
Rating Agencies;

(4) | The Mortgage is a valid, subsisting, enforceable and perfected, first
lien (with respect to a First Lien Loan) or second lien (with respect to a Second Lien Loan) on
the Mortgaged Property, including all buildings and improvements on the Mortgaged Property
and all installations and mechanical, electrical, plumbing, heating and air conditioning systems
located in or annexed to such buildings, and all additions, alterations and replacements made at
any time with respect to the foregoing. The lien of the Mortgage is subject only to:

(i) with respect to a Second Lien Loan only, the lien of the
first mortgage on the Mortgaged Property;

(ii) the lien of current real property taxes and assessments not
yet due and payable;

(iii) _ covenants, conditions and restrictions, rights of way,
easements and other matters of the public record as of the date of recording acceptable to

13

[TPW: NYLEGAL:688702.10] 17297-00533 11/26/2007 07:47 PM


prudent mortgage lending institutions generally and specifically referred to in the lender’s
title insurance policy delivered to the originator of the MSMCH Represented Mortgage
Loan and (a) specifically referred to or otherwise considered in the appraisal made for the
originator of the MSMCH Represented Mortgage Loan or (b) which do not adversely
affect the Appraised Value of the Mortgaged Property set forth in such appraisal; and

(iv) other matters to which like properties are commonly
subject which do not materially interfere with the benefits of the security intended to be
provided by the Mortgage or the use, enjoyment, value or marketability of the related
Mortgaged Property.

Any security agreement, chattel mortgage or equivalent document related to and
delivered in connection with the MSMCH Represented Mortgage Loan establishes and creates a
valid, subsisting, enforceable and perfected first lien (with respect to a First Lien Loan) or
second lien (with respect to a Second Lien Loan) and first priority (with respect to a First Lien
Loan) or second priority (with respect to a Second Lien Loan) security interest on the property .
described therein and MSMCH has full right to sell and assign the same to the Purchaser.

(5) | The Mortgage Note and the Mortgage and any other agreement

- executed and delivered by a Mortgagor in connection with a MSMCH Represented Mortgage

Loan are genuine, and each is the legal valid and binding obligation of the maker thereof
enforceable in accordance with its terms (including, without limitation, any provisions therein
relating to Prepayment Penalties). All parties to the Mortgage Note, the Mortgage and any other

such related agreement had legal capacity to enter into the MSMCH Represented Mortgage Loan

and to execute and deliver the Mortgage Note, the Mortgage and any such agreement, and the

Mortgage Note, the Mortgage and any other such related agreement have been duly and properly

executed by other such related parties. No fraud, error, omission, misrepresentation, negligence

or similar occurrence with respect to a MSMCH Represented Mortgage Loan has taken place on

the part of MSMCH, or, to the knowledge of MSMCH, any other person, including without

limitation, the Mortgagor, any appraiser, any builder or developer, or any other party involved in

the origination of the MSMCH Represented Mortgage Loan;

(6) With respect to a MSMCH Represented Mortgage Loan which is
not a Co-op Loan, the MSMCH Represented Mortgage Loan is covered by an ALTA lender’s
title insurance policy, or with respect to any MSMCH Represented Mortgage Loan for which the
related Mortgaged Property is located in California a CLTA lender’s title insurance policy, or
. other generally acceptable form of policy or insurance acceptable to Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac
and each such title insurance policy is issued by a generally accepted title insurer and qualified to
do business in the jurisdiction where the Mortgaged Property is located, insuring MSMCH, its
successors and assigns, as to the first (with respect to a First Lien Loan) or second (with respect
to a Second Lien Loan) priority lien of the Mortgage in the original principal amount of the
MSMCH Represented Mortgage Loan (or to the extent a Mortgage Note provides for negative
amortization, the maximum amount of negative amortization in accordance with the Mortgage),
subject only to the exceptions contained in clauses (i), (ii) and (iii) of paragraph (4) of this
Section 10, and in the case of Adjustable Rate MSMCH Represented Mortgage Loans, against
any loss by reason of the invalidity or unenforceability of the lien resulting from the provisions
of the Mortgage providing for adjustment to the Mortgage Interest Rate and Monthly Payment;

14

[TPW: NYLEGAL:688702.10] 17297-00533: 11/26/2007 07:47 PM


(7) Except as set forth in paragraph (1) above, there is no default,
breach, violation or event which would permit acceleration existing under the Mortgage or the
Mortgage Note and no event which, with the passage of time or with notice and the expiration of
any grace or cure period, would constitute a default, breach, violation or event which-would—

permit acceleration, and neither MSMCH nor any of its Affiliates nor any of their respective
predecessors, have waived any default, breach, violation or event which would permit
acceleration;

(8) The MSMCH Represented Mortgage Loan has been closed and the
proceeds of the MSMCH Represented Mortgage Loan have been fully disbursed and there is no
requirement for future advances thereunder, and any and all requirements as to completion of
any on-site or off-site improvement and as to disbursements of any escrow funds therefor have
been complied with. All costs, fees and expenses incurred in making or closing the MSMCH
Represented Mortgage Loan and the recording of the Mortgage were paid, and the Mortgagor is
not entitled to any refund of any amounts paid or due under the Mortgage Note or Mortgage;

(9) There are no mechanics’ or similar liens or claims which have
been filed for work, labor or material (and no rights are outstanding that under the law could give
rise to such liens) affecting the related Mortgaged Property which are or may be liens prior to, or
equal or coordinate with, the lien of the related Mortgage;

(10) The Mortgage contains customary and enforceable provisions such
as to render the rights and remedies of the holder thereof adequate for the realization against the
Mortgaged Property of the benefits of the security provided thereby, including, (i) in the case of
a Mortgage designated as a deed of trust, by trustee’s sale, and (ii) otherwise by judicial
foreclosure. Upon default by a Mortgagor on a MSMCH Represented Mortgage Loan and
foreclosure on, or trustee’s sale of, the Mortgaged Property pursuant to the proper procedures,
the holder of the MSMCH Represented Mortgage Loan will be able to deliver good and
merchantable title to the Mortgaged Property. There is no homestead or. other exemption
available to a Mortgagor which would interfere with the right to sell the mortgaged property at a
trustee’s sale or the right to foreclose the Mortgage, subject to applicable federal and state laws
and judicial precedent with respect to bankruptcy and right of redemption or similar law;

(11) With respect to each fixed rate MSMCH Represented Mortgage
Loan, the Mortgage contains an enforceable provision for the acceleration of the payment of the
unpaid principal balance of the MSMCH Represented Mortgage Loan in the event that the
Mortgaged Property is sold or transferred without the prior written consent of the mortgagee
thereunder, and to the best of MSMCH’s knowledge, such provision is enforceable;

(12) There is no proceeding pending or, to MSMCH’s knowledge,
threatened for the total or partial condemnation of the Mortgaged Property. The Mortgaged
Property is undamaged by waste, fire, earthquake or earth movement, windstorm, flood, tornado
or other casualty so as to affect adversely the value of the Mortgaged Property as security for the
MSMCH Represented Mortgage Loan or the use for which the premises were intended and each
Mortgaged Property is in good repair. There have not been any condemnation proceedings with
respect to the Mortgaged Property;

15

[TPW: NYLEGAL:688702.10] 17297-00533 11/26/2007 07:47 PM


(13) The Mortgagor was not encouraged or required to select a
MSMCH Represented Mortgage Loan product offered by the Originator which is a higher cost
product designed for less creditworthy mortgagors, unless at the time of the MSMCH
Represented Mortgage Loan’s origination, such Mortgagor did not qualify taking into such facts
as, without limitation, the MSMCH Represented Mortgage Loan’s requirements and the
Mortgagor’s credit history, income, assets and liabilities and debt to income ratios for a lower
cost credit product then offered by the Originator or any Affiliate of the Originator. If, at the time
of loan application, the Mortgagor may have qualified for a lower cost credit product then
offered by any mortgage lending Affiliate of the Originator, the Originator referred the related
Mortgagor’s application to such Affiliate for underwriting consideration. For a Mortgagor who
seeks financing through a MSMCH Represented Mortgage Loan originator’s higher-priced
subprime lending channel, the Mortgagor was directed towards or offered the MSMCH
Represented Mortgage Loan originator’s standard mortgage line if the Mortgagor was able to
qualify for one of the standard products;

(14) [Reserved];

(15) There are no defaults in complying with the terms of the Mortgage,
and all taxes, governmental assessments, insurance premiums, water, sewer and municipal
charges, leasehold payments or ground rents which previously became due and owing have been
paid, or an escrow of funds has been established in an amount sufficient to pay for every such
item which remains unpaid and which has been assessed but is not yet due and payable;

(16) The terms of the Mortgage Note and Mortgage have not been
impaired, waived, altered or modified in any respect, from the date of origination except by a
written instrument which has been recorded, if necessary to protect the interests of the Purchaser,
and which has been delivered to the Trustee or to such other Person as the Purchaser shall
designate in writing, and the terms of which are reflected in the Mortgage Loan Schedule. The
substance of any such waiver, alteration or modification has been approved by the issuer of the
title insurer, if any, to the extent required, and its terms are reflected on the Mortgage Loan
Schedule, if applicable;

(17) | The MSMCH Represented Mortgage Loan would be a “qualified
mortgage,” within the meaning of Section 860G(a)(3) of the Code, if transferred to a REMIC
onits startup day in exchange for the regular or residual interests in the REMIC;

(18) Solely with respect to the Fremont Mortgage Loans, the New

Century Mortgage Loans and any First NLC Mortgage Loans and Accredited Mortgage Loans
sold by MSMCH to the Purchaser on the Closing Date, MSMCH is the sole owner of record and
holder of each such Mortgage Loan and the indebtedness evidenced by each Mortgage Note.
Each such Mortgage Loan is not assigned or pledged, and MSMCH has good, indefeasible and
marketable title thereto, and has full right to transfer and sell each such Mortgage Loan to the
Purchaser free and clear of any encumbrance, equity, participation interest, lien, pledge, charge,
claim or security interest, and has full right and authority subject to no interest or participation
of, or agreement with, any other party, to sell and assign each such Mortgage Loan and following
the sale of each such Mortgage Loan, the Purchaser will own such Mortgage Loan free and clear
of any encumbrance, equity, participation interest, lien, pledge, charge, claim or security interest;

16

[TPW: NYLEGAL;688702.10] 17297-00533 11/26/2007 07:47 PM


(19) All improvements which were considered in determining the
appraised value of the Mortgaged Property lay wholly within the boundaries and building
restriction lines of the Mortgaged Property, and no improvements on adjoining properties

encroach upon the Mortgaged Property. No improvement located on or being part.of the =~

Mortgaged Property is in violation of any applicable zoning law or regulation;

(20) The Mortgage File contains an appraisal of the related Mortgaged
Property signed prior to the approval of the MSMCH Represented Mortgage Loan application by
a Qualified Appraiser, duly appointed by MSMCH, who had no interest, direct or indirect in the
Mortgaged Property or in any loan made on the security thereof, and whose compensation is not
affected by the approval or disapproval of the MSMCH Represented Mortgage Loan, and the
appraisal and appraiser both satisfy the requirements of Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac and Title XI
of the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery, and Enforcement Act of 1989 and the regulations
promulgated thereunder, all as in effect on the date the MSMCH Represented Mortgage Loan
was originated;

(21) No MSMCH Represented Mortgage Loan has an LTV greater than
100%;

(22) Each MSMCH Represented Mortgage Loan that is subject to a
prepayment penalty as provided in the related Mortgage Note is identified on the related
Mortgage Loan Schedule. With respect to each MSMCH Represented Mortgage Loan that has a
prepayment penalty feature, each such prepayment penalty is enforceable and will be enforced
by MSMCH for the benefit of the Purchaser, and each prepayment penalty is permitted pursuant
to federal, state and local law. Each such prepayment penalty is in an amount not more than the
maximum amount permitted under applicable law and no such prepayment penalty may be
imposed for a term in excess of five (5) years with respect to MSMCH Represented Mortgage
Loans originated prior to October 1, 2002. With respect to MSMCH Represented Mortgage
Loans originated on or after October 1, 2002, the duration of the prepayment penalty period shall
not exceed three (3) years from the date of the Mortgage Note unless the MSMCH Represented
Mortgage Loan was modified to reduce the prepayment penalty period to no more than three (3)
years from the date of the related Mortgage Note and the Mortgagor was notified in writing of
such reduction in prepayment penalty period;

| (23) No Mortgagor was required to purchase any single premium credit
insurance policy (e.g. life, mortgage, disability, property, accident unemployment or health
insurance product) or debt cancellation agreement as a condition of obtaining the extension of
credit. No Mortgagor obtained a prepaid single-premium credit insurance policy (e.g., life,
mortgage, disability, property, accident, unemployment or health insurance) in connection with
the origination of the MSMCH Represented Mortgage Loan. No proceeds from any MSMCH
Represented Mortgage Loan were used to purchase single premium credit insurance policies or
debt cancellation agreements as part of the origination of, or as a condition to closing, such
MSMCH Represented Mortgage Loan; and

(24) No MSMCH Represented Mortgage Loan originated on or after
July 1, 2004 requires the related Mortgagor to submit to arbitration to resolve any dispute arising
out of or relating in any way to the MSMCH Represented Mortgage Loan transaction.

17

[TPW: NYLEGAL:688702.10] 17297-00533 .11/26/2007 07:47 PM


It is understood and agreed that the representations and warranties set forth in this
Section 10 will inure to the benefit of the Purchaser, its successors and assigns, notwithstanding
any restrictive or qualified endorsement on any Mortgage Note or assignment of Mortgage or the
examination of any Mortgage File. Upon any substitution for a MSMCH Represented Mortgage
-Loan, the representations and warranties set forth above shall be deemed to be made by the
related Mortgage Loan Seller as to any Replacement Mortgage Loan as of the date of
substitution.

Upon discovery or receipt of notice by MSMCH or the Purchaser of a breach of
any representation .or warranty of MSMCH set forth in this Section 10 which materially and
adversely affects the value of the interests of the Purchaser in any of the MSMCH Represented
Mortgage Loans delivered to the Purchaser pursuant to this Agreement, the party discovering or
receiving notice of such breach shall give prompt written notice to the others. In the case of any
such breach of a representation or warranty set forth in this Section 10, within 90 days from the
date of discovery by MSMCH, or the date MSMCH is notified by the party discovering or
receiving notice of such breach (whichever occurs earlier), MSMCH will, (i) cure such breach in
all material respects, (ii) purchase the affected Mortgage Loan at the applicable Purchase Price or
(iii) if within two years of the Closing Date, substitute a qualifying Replacement Mortgage Loan
in exchange for such MSMCH Represented Mortgage Loan. The obligations of MSMCH to
cure, purchase or substitute a qualifying Replacement Mortgage Loan shall constitute the
Purchaser’s, the Trustee’s and the Certificateholder’s sole and exclusive remedy under this
Agreement or otherwise respecting a breach of-representations or warranties hereunder with
respect to the MSMCH Represented Mortgage Loans.

‘With respect to any Accredited Mortgage Loan, reference is made to the
Accredited Assignment, Assumption and Recognition Agreement attached hereto as Exhibit 8.
In the case of any such breach of a representation or warranty set forth in this Section 10 made
by Accredited with respect to an Accredited Mortgage Loan, in the event Accredited fails to
cure, substitute or repurchase an Accredited Mortgage Loan within the period specified in the
Accredited Assignment, Assumption and Recognition Agreement, MSMCH will cure, substitute
or repurchase such Accredited Mortgage Loan in accordance with the terms of the foregoing

paragraph.

Any cause of action against MSMCH or relating to or arising out of a breach by

MSMCH of any representations and warranties made in this Section 10 shall accrue as to any

MSMCH Represented Mortgage Loan upon (i) discovery of such breach by MSMCH or notice

thereof by the party discovering such breach and (ii) failure by MSMCH to cure such breach,

purchase such MSMCH Represented Mortgage Loan or substitute a qualifying Replacement
Mortgage Loan pursuant to the terms hereof.

SECTION 11. Assignment of Accredited Assignment, Assumption and
Recognition Agreement and the Fremont Investment _& Loan Bring Down Letter. EMC,
MSMCH and BSABS I hereby agree that the following agreements are hereby assigned to
Deutsche Bank National Trust Company, not individually but solely as Trustee for the holders
of Morgan Stanley Structured Trust I 2007-1, Asset-Backed Certificates, Series 2007-1:

(a) Accredited Assignment, Assumption and Recognition Agreement.
18

[TPW: NYLEGAL:688702.10] 17297-00533 11/26/2007 07:47 PM


(b) Bring Down and Indemnification Letter, dated July 6, 2007, between
Fremont Investment & Loan and MSMCH.

SECTION 12. [Reserved].

SECTION 13. - Representations and Warranties Concerning the Purchaser.
As of the date hereof and as of the Closing Date, the Purchaser represents and warrants to the
Mortgage Loan Sellers as follows:

(a) The Purchaser (i) is a limited liability company duly organized, validly
existing and in good standing under the laws of the State of Delaware and (ii) is qualified and in
good standing to do business in each jurisdiction where such qualification is necessary, except
where the failure so to qualify would not reasonably be expected to have a material adverse
effect on the Purchaser’s business as presently conducted or on the Purchaser’s ability to enter
into this Agreement and to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby;

(b) | The Purchaser has full power to own its property, to carry on its business
as presently conducted and to enter into and perform its obligations under this Agreement;

(c). The execution and delivery by the Purchaser of this Agreement has been
duly authorized by all necessary action on the part of the Purchaser; and neither the execution
and delivery of this Agreement, nor the consummation of the transactions herem contemplated,
nor compliance with the provisions hereof, will conflict with or result in a breach of, or
constitute a default under, any of the provisions of any law, governmental rule, regulation,
judgment, decree or order binding on the Purchaser or its properties or the certificate of
formation or limited liability company agreement of the Purchaser, except those conflicts,
breaches or defaults which would not reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect
on the Purchaser’s ability to enter into this Agreement and to consummate the transactions
contemplated hereby or thereby;

(d) The execution, delivery and performance by the Purchaser of this
Agreement and the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby do not
require the consent or approval of, the giving of notice to, the registration with, or the taking of
any other action in respect of, any state, federal or other governmental authority or agency,
except those consents, approvals, notices, registrations or other actions as have already been
obtained, given or made;

(e) This Agreement has been duly executed and delivered by the Purchaser
and, assuming due authorization, execution and delivery by the Mortgage Loan Sellers,
constitutes a valid and binding obligation of the Purchaser enforceable against it in accordance
with its terms (subject to applicable bankruptcy and insolvency laws and other similar laws
affecting the enforcement of the rights of creditors generally); and

(f) There are no actions, suits or proceedings pending or, to the knowledge of
the Purchaser, threatened against the Purchaser, before or by any court, administrative agency,
arbitrator or governmental body (i) with respect to any of the transactions contemplated by this
Agreement or (ii) with respect to any other matter which in the judgment of the Purchaser could

19

[TPW: NYLEGAL:688702.10] 17297-00533 11/26/2007 07:47 PM


reasonably be expected to be determined adversely to the Purchaser and if determined adversely
to the Purchaser materially and adversely affect the Purchaser’s ability to perform its obligations
under this Agreement; and the Purchaser is not in default with respect to any order of any court,
administrative agency, arbitrator or governmental body so as to materially and adversely affect
the transactions contemplated by this Agreement.

SECTION 14. Conditions to Closing.

(a) The obligations of the Purchaser under this Agreement will be subject to
the satisfaction, on or prior to the Closing Date, of the following conditions:

(1) — Each of the obligations of each Mortgage Loan Seller required to
be performed at or prior to the Closing Date pursuant to the terms of this Agreement shall have
been duly performed and complied with in all material respects; all of the representations and
warranties of each Mortgage Loan Seller under this Agreement shall be true and correct as of the
date or dates specified in all material respects; and no event shall have occurred which, with
notice or the passage of time, would constitute a default under this Agreement or the Pooling and
Servicing Agreement; and the Purchaser shall have received certificates to that effect signed by
authorized officers of each of the Mortgage Loan Sellers.

(2) The Purchaser shall have received all of the following closing
documents, in such forms as are agreed upon and reasonably acceptable to the Purchaser, duly
executed by all signatories other than the Purchaser as required pursuant to the respective terms
thereof:

(i) The Pooling and Servicing Agreement, in form and
substance reasonably satisfactory to the Trustee and the Purchaser, and all documents
required thereby duly executed by all signatories;

(ii) A certificate of an officer of EMC dated as of the Closing
Date, in a form reasonably acceptable to the Purchaser, and attached thereto the
resolutions of EMC authorizing the transactions contemplated by this Agreement,
together with copies of the articles of incorporation, by-laws and certificate of good
standing of EMC;

(iii) A certificate of an officer of MSMCH dated as of the
Closing Date, in a form reasonably acceptable to the Purchaser, and attached thereto the
resolutions of MSMCH authorizing the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, |
together with copies of the written consent of the sole member, articles of incorporation,
operating agreement and certificate of good standing of MSMCH;

(iv) | One or more opinions of counsel from the Mortgage Loan
Sellers’ counsel otherwise in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Purchaser,
the Trustee and each Rating Agency;

(v) A letter from each of the Rating Agencies giving each
Class of Certificates set forth on Schedule A hereto the rating set forth therein; and

20

[TPW: NYLEGAL:688702, 10] 17297-00533 11/26/2007 07:47 PM


(vi) Such other documents, certificates (including additional
representations and warranties) and opinions as may be reasonably necessary to secure
the intended ratings from each Rating Agency for the Certificates.

: (3). The-Certificates to be--sold to Bear~Stearns pursuant to the
Underwriting Agreement and the Purchase Agreement shall have been issued and sold to Bear
Stearns.

(4) Each Mortgage Loan Seller shall have furnished to the Purchaser
such other certificates of its officers or others and such other documents and opinions of counsel
to evidence fulfillment of the conditions set forth in this Agreement and the transactions
contemplated hereby as the Purchaser and their respective counsel may reasonably request.

(b) The obligations of each Mortgage Loan Seller under this Agreement shall
be subject to the satisfaction, on or prior to the Closing Date, of the following conditions:

(1) The obligations of the Purchaser required to be performed by it on.
or prior to the Closing Date pursuant to the terms of this Agreement shall have been duly
performed and complied with in all material respects, and all of the representations and
warranties of the Purchaser under this Agreement shall be true and correct in all material respects
as of the date hereof and as of the Closing Date, and no event shall have occurred which would
constitute a breach by it of the terms of this Agreement or the Pooling and Servicing Agreement, —
and each Mortgage Loan Seller shall have received a certificate to that effect signed by an
authorized officer of the Purchaser.

(2) Each Mortgage Loan Seller shall have received copies of all of the
following closing documents, in such forms as are agreed upon and reasonably acceptable to —
each Mortgage Loan Seller, duly executed by all signatories other than the related Mortgage
Loan Seller as required pursuant to the respective terms thereof:

(i) The Pooling and Servicing Agreement, in form and
substance reasonably satisfactory to the Mortgage Loan Sellers, the Master Servicer and
the Trustee, and all documents required thereby duly executed by all signatories;

(ii) A certificate of an officer of the Purchaser dated as of the
Closing Date, in a form reasonably acceptable to each Mortgage Loan Seller, and
attached thereto the written consent of the member of the Purchaser authorizing the
transactions contemplated by this Agreement, the Pooling and Servicing Agreement,
together with copies of the Purchaser’s certificate of formation, limited liability company
agreement and evidence as to the good standing of the Purchaser dated as of a recent
date; |

(iii) . One or more opinions of counsel from the Purchaser’s
counsel in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to each Mortgage Loan Seller, the
Trustee and the Rating Agencies; and

21]

[TPW: NYLEGAL-688702.10] 17297-00533 11/26/2007 07:47 PM


(iv) Such other documents, certificates (including additional
representations and warranties) and opinions as may be reasonably necessary to secure
the intended rating from each Rating Agency for the Certificates.

SECTION 15. Fees and Expenses. EMC and MSMCH shall pay fees and
_expenses as previously agreed.

SECTION 16. Accountants’ Letters.

(a) Deloitte & Touche LLP will review the characteristics of a sample of the
Mortgage Loans described in the Mortgage Loan Schedule and will compare those
characteristics to the description of the Mortgage Loans contained in the Free Writing Prospectus
under the captions “Summary—The Mortgage Loans” and “The Mortgage Pool” and in Schedule
A thereto. Deloitte & Touche LLP will review the characteristics of a sample of the Mortgage
Loans described in the Mortgage Loan Schedule and will compare those characteristics to the
description of the Mortgage Loans contained in the Prospectus Supplement under the captions
“Summary—The Mortgage Loans” and “The Mortgage Pool” and in Schedule A thereto. EMC
or MSMCH, as applicable, will cooperate with the Purchaser in making available all information
and taking all steps reasonably necessary to permit such accountants to complete the review and
to deliver the letters required of them under the Underwriting Agreement. Deloitte & Touche
LLP will also confirm certain calculations as set forth under the caption “Yield, Prepayment and
Maturity Considerations” in the Free Writing Prospectus and in the Prospectus Supplement.

SECTION 17. [Reserved].

SECTION 18. Notices. All demands, notices and communications
hereunder shall be in writing but may be delivered by facsimile transmission subsequently
confirmed in writing. Notices to EMC shall be directed to EMC Mortgage Corporation, 2780
Lake Vista Drive, Lewisville, Texas 75067, (Facsimile: (241-626-4714)) Attention: General
Counsel; notices to MSMCH shall be directed to Morgan Stanley Mortgage Capital Holdings
LLC, 1585 Broadway, Floor 10, New York, New York 10036 (Facsimile: (212) 507-8305)
Attention: Steven Shapiro; and notices to the Purchaser shall be directed to Bear Stearns Asset
Backed Securities.[ LLC, 383 Madison Avenue, New York, New York 10179, (Facsimile:
(212-272-7206)), Attention: Chief Counsel; or to any other address as may hereafter be
furnished by one party to the other party by like notice. Any such demand, notice or
communication hereunder shall be deemed to have been received on the date received at the
premises of the addressee (as evidenced, in the case of registered or certified mail, by the date
noted on the return receipt) provided that it is received on a business day during normal
business hours and, if received after normal business hours, then it shall be deemed to be
received on the next business day.

SECTION 19. Transfer of Mortgage Loans. The Purchaser retains the
right to assign the Mortgage Loans and any or all of its interest under this Agreement to the
Trustee without the consent of the Mortgage Loan Sellers, and, upon such assignment, the
Trustee shall succeed to the applicable rights and obligations of the Purchaser hereunder;
provided, however, the Purchaser shall remain entitled to the benefits set forth in Sections 12,
14 and 18 hereto and as provided in Section 2(a). Notwithstanding the foregoing, the sole and

22

[TPW: NYLEGAL:688702,10] 17297-00533 11/26/2007 07:47 PM


exclusive right and remedy of the Trustee with respect to a breach of representation or
warranty of the Mortgage Loan Sellers shall be the cure, purchase or substitution obligations
contained in Sections 5 and 7 hereof.

- ‘SECTION 20. Termination. This Agreement may be terminated (a) by the
mutual consent of the parties hereto prior to the Closing Date, (b) by the Purchaser, if the
conditions to the Purchaser’s obligation to close set forth under Section 11(a) hereof are not
fulfilled as and when required to be fulfilled or (c) by any Mortgage Loan Seller, if the
conditions to the Mortgage Loan Sellers’ obligation to close set forth under Section 11(b)
hereof are not fulfilled as and when required to be fulfilled. In the event of a termination
pursuant to this Section 20, each party shall be responsible for its own expenses.

SECTION 21. Representations, Warranties and Agreements to Survive
Delivery. All representations, warranties and agreements contained in this Agreement, or
contained in certificates of officers of the Mortgage Loan Sellers submitted pursuant hereto,
shall remain operative and in full force and effect and shall survive delivery of the Mortgage
Loans to the Purchaser (and by the Purchaser to the Trustee). Subsequent to the delivery of the |
Mortgage Loans to the Purchaser, each of the representations and warranties contained herein
with respect to the Mortgage Loans shall be deemed to relate to the Mortgage Loans actually
delivered to the Purchaser and included in the Mortgage Loan Schedule and any Replacement
Mortgage Loan. :

SECTION 22. Severability. If any provision of this Agreement shall be
prohibited or invalid under applicable law, this Agreement shall be ineffective only to such
extent, without invalidating the remainder of this Agreement.

SECTION 23. Counterparts. This Agreement may be executed in
counterparts, each of which will be an original, but which together shall constitute one and the
same agreement.

SECTION 24. Amendment. This Agreement cannot be amended or
modified in any manner without the prior written consent of each party.

SECTION 25. GOVERNING LAW. THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE
GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAWS OF THE
STATE OF NEW YORK, WITHOUT REGARD TO CONFLICT OF LAWS PRINCIPLES
THEREOF OTHER THAN SECTION 5-1401 OF THE NEW YORK GENERAL
OBLIGATIONS LAW.

SECTION 26. Further Assurances. Each of the parties agrees to execute
and deliver such instruments and take such actions as another party may, from time to time,
reasonably request in order to effectuate the purpose and to carry out the terms of this
Agreement including any amendments hereto which may be required by either Rating Agency.

SECTION 27. Successors and Assigns. This Agreement shall bind and
inure to the benefit of and be enforceable by each of the Mortgage Loan Sellers and the
Purchaser and their permitted successors and assigns and, to the extent specified in Section 14

23

(TPW: NYLEGAL:688702.10} 17297-00533 11/26/2007 07:47 PM



hereof, Bear Stearns, and their directors, officers and controlling persons (within the meaning
of federal securities laws). The Mortgage Loan Sellers acknowledge and agree that the
Purchaser may assign its rights under this Agreement (including, without limitation, with
respect to their representations and warranties respecting the Mortgage Loans) to the Trustee
on behalf of the Certificateholders. Any person into which any Mortgage Loan Seller may be
merged or consolidated (or any person resulting from any merger or consolidation involving
such Mortgage Loan Seller), any person resulting from a change in form of such Mortgage
Loan Seller or any person succeeding to the business ‘of such Mortgage Loan Seller, shall be
considered the “successor” of such Mortgage Loan Seller, hereunder and shall be considered a
party hereto without the execution or filing of any paper or any further act or consent on the
part of any party hereto. Except as provided in the two preceding sentences, this Agreement
cannot be assigned, pledged or hypothecated to a third party by either party hereto without the

- written consent of the other parties to this Agreement and any such assignment or purported
assignment shall be deemed null and void.

SECTION 28. The Mortgage Loan Sellers. EMC will keep in full force
and effect its existence, all rights and franchises as a corporation under the laws of the State of
its incorporation and will obtain and preserve its qualification to do business as a foreign
corporation in each jurisdiction in which such qualification is necessary to perform its
obligations under this Agreement. MSMCH will keep in full force and effect its existence, all
rights and franchises as a limited liability company under the laws of the State of its formation
and will obtain and preserve its qualification to do business as a foreign limited liability
company in each jurisdiction in which such qualification is necessary to perform its
obligations under this Agreement. .

SECTION 29. Entire Agreement. This Agreement contains the entire
agreement and understanding between the parties with respect to the subject matter hereof, and
supersedes all prior and contemporaneous agreements, understandings, inducements and
conditions, express or implied, oral or written, of any nature whatsoever with respect to the
subject matter hereof.

SECTION 30. No Partnership. Nothing herein contained shall be deemed
or construed to create a partnership or joint venture between the parties hereto.

24

[TPW: NYLEGAL:688702.10] 17297-00533 11/26/2007 07:47 PM


IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused their names to be
signed hereto by their respective duly authorized officers as of the date first above written.

MORTGAGE LOAN PURCHASE AGREEMENT

BEAR STEARNS ASSET BACKED
SECURITIES I LLC

By:
Name: Baron Silverstein
Title: Vice President

MORGAN STANLEY MORTGAGE
CAPITAL HOLDINGS LLC

By:
Name:
Title:



IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused their names to be
signed hereto by their respective duly authorized officers as of the date first above written.

MORTGAGE LOAN PURCHASE AGREEMENT

EMC MORTGAGE CORPORATION

By:.
Name:
Title:

BEAR STEARNS ASSET BACKED
SECURITIES I LLC

wy: 2D

Name: Baron Silverstein
Title: Vice President

MORGAN STANLEY MORTGAGE
CAPITAL HOLDINGS LLC

By:
Name:
Title:



IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused their names to be

signed hereto by their respective duly a authorized officers as of the date first above written,

EMC MORTGAGE CORPORATION

By:
Name:
Title:

BEAR STEARNS ASSET BACKED
SECURITIES I LLC

By:
Name: Baron Silverstein’
Title: Vice President

MORGAN STANLEY MORTGAGE
CAPITAL HOLDINGS LLC

by: =
Nene, = aoe
Title: Manage P Neto

MORTGAGE LOAN PURCHASE AGREEMENT


EXHIBIT 1
CONTENTS OF MORTGAGE FILE

With respect to each Mortgage Loan, the Mortgage File shall include each of the
following items, which shall be available for inspection by the Purchaser or its designee, and
which shall be delivered to the Purchaser or its designee pursuant to the terms of this Agreement.

(i) Copies of the Mortgage Loan Documents (as defined in the Underlying
EMC Purchase Agreement); .

(ii) Residential loan application;
ii) Mortgage Loan closing statement;
(iv) — Verification of employment and income, if required;

(v) Verification of © acceptable evidence of source and amount of
downpayment;

(vi) Credit report on Mortgagor;
(vii) Residential appraisal report;

(viii) Photograph of the Mortgaged Property and photographs of comparable
properties;

(ix) | Survey of the Mortgaged Property, unless a survey is not required by the
title insurer;

(x) Copy of each instrument necessary to complete identification of any
exception set forth in the exception schedule in the title policy, i.e., map or plat,
restrictions, easements, home owner association declarations, etc.;

(xi) | Copies of all required disclosure statements;

(xii) If applicable, termite report, structural engineer’s report, water potability;
and septic certification;

(xiii) . Sales contract, if applicable;

(xiv) Copy of the owner’s title insurance policy or attorney’s opinion of title
and abstract of title, as applicable; and

(xv) Evidence of electronic notation of the hazard insurance policy, and, if
required by law, evidence of the flood insurance policy.

E-1-1

[TPW: NYLEGAL-:688702. 10] 17297-00533 11/26/2007 07:47 PM


EXHIBIT 2

MORTGAGE LOAN SCHEDULE INFORMATION

(a) the Seller’s Mortgage Loan identifying number;
(b) — the Mortgagor’s name;
(c) the street address of the Mortgaged Property including the city, state and zip code;
(d) ~ acode indicating whether the Mortgaged Property is owner-occupied, investment
property or a second home; ,
(e) the number and type of residential units constituting the Mortgaged Property (e.g.
single family residence, a two- to four-family dwelling, condominium, planned unit
development or cooperative);
(f) the original months to maturity or the remaining months to maturity from the Cut-
off Date, in any case based on the original amortization schedule and, if different, the
maturity expressed in the same manner but based on the actual amortization schedule;

_ (g) — with respect to each First Lien Loan, the Loan-to- Value Ratio at origination, and
with respect to each Second Lien Loan, the CLTV at origination;
(h) — the Mortgage Interest Rate as of the Cut-off Date; |
(i) the date on which the first Monthly Payment was due on the Mortgage Loan and,
if such date is not consistent with the Due Date currently in effect, the Due Date;
(j) the stated maturity date;

| (k) the amount of the Monthly Payment as of the Cut-off Date;
(1) the last payment date on which a payment was actually applied to the outstanding
principal balance; |
(m) — the original principal amount of the Mortgage Loan;
(n) — the actual principal balance of the Mortgage Loan as of the close of business on
the Cut-off Date, after deduction of payments of principal collected on or before. the Cut-
off Date; : |
(o) with respect to Adjustable Rate Mortgage Loans, the Interest Rate Adjustment
Date;
(p) — with respect to Adjustable Rate Mortgage Loans, the Gross Margin;
(q) with respect to Adjustable Rate Mortgage Loans, the Lifetime Rate Cap under the

: E-2-1

[TPW: NYLEGAL:688702.10] 17297-00533 11/26/2007 07:47 PM


terms of the Mortgage Note;

(r) with respect to Adjustable Rate Mortgage Loans, a code indicating the type of
Index;

(s) the type of Mortgage Loan (i.e., Fixed or Adjustable Rate Mortgage Loan, First or
Second Lien Loan); |

(t) a code indicating the purpose of the loan (i.e., purchase, rate/term refinance or
cash-out refinance);

(u) __ the applicable Originator;

(v) the applicable Servicer;

(w) — the applicable Custodian;

(x) the Purchase Date; and

(y) the Appraised Value.

Such schedule also shall set forth for all of the Mortgage Loans, the total number of
Mortgage Loans, the total of each of the amounts described under (0) above, the weighted
average by principal balance as of the Cut-off Date of the rate described under (h) above, and the
weighted average remaining term to maturity by unpaid principal balance as of the Cut-off Date.

E-2-2

[TPW: NYLEGAL:688702.10] 17297-00533 11/26/2007 07:47 PM


EXHIBIT 3

UNDERLYING EMC PURCHASE AGREEMENT

E-3-1

{TPW: NYLEGAL:688702.10] 17297-00533 | 11/26/2007 07:47 PM


EXECUTION COPY

MORTGAGE LOAN PURCHASE AND WARRANTIES AGREEMENT

EMC MORTGAGE CORPORATION,

Purchaser

MORGAN STANLEY MORTGAGE CAPITAL INC.,

Seller

Dated as of May 1, 2007

Conventional,
Fixed and Adjustable Rate
Residential Mortgage Loans

USActive 8685293. 11


TABLE OF CONTENTS
pe

SECTION 1. DEFINITIONS ...ccssescscosssssssssscsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssussssuescsssennssssesscersussnsssenecensness 1
SECTION2. AGREEMENT TO PURCHASE MORTGAGE LOANS. ...ccccscssscsssecsessenssseeees 11
SECTION 3. MORTGAGE SCHEDULE. sesscsscssscsstcssssntunsntnsnseseisinsessssnintatinsse 1
SECTION 4. PURCHASE PRICE. cesscsssscssssssssssssscsssssssssssvssssssssssusssssssssessessasussessensvusessearsenesees 11
SECTION 5. EXAMINATION OF MORTGAGE FILES. ...cssesssscssssccsssssssssssssssssssecsssesssnssseees 12
SECTION 6. CONVEYANCE FROM SELLER TO PURCHASER, .....sssssssssssscsssecsssesessssees 12
SECTION 7. SERVICING OF THE MORTGAGE LOANS. ovsecsessssssssssssssssssessessvssssssesessesee 13
SECTION 8. REPRESENTATIONS, WARRANTIES AND COVENANTS OF THE

SELLER; REMEDIES FOR BREACH ..vsssssssssssessscssssssssssecsssssssssuecssesecansesensess 13
SECTION 9. — CLOSING cucscsscsccsssccosssssvvcssesssssussssssssessnssnsssesssansssssessesesssssnsvessecensuuscessseranseassees 17
SECTION 10. CLOSING DOCUMENTS. ccccsssssssssssscsssssssssscsssssscessssssssssssssussesscursnsusssesennsnenseees 18
SECTION 11. COSTS. ccecccsssssssscssssscosssssscsesesssssssusstessessesssavucessssssvessseseessesssnsuscesesessaneeseeecesneeesees 18
SECTION 12. COOPERATION OF SELLER WITH A RECONSTITUTION. ...csssscssssseessses 18
SECTION 13. GRANT OF SECURITY INTEREST. ..csscsssssssssssststesseseenssnstsntsntnetees 20
SECTION 14. NOTICES ...cssccccssssscsssssssvecscscsssvesessssscesssssssevscsessassssssssessesressusesesecesensseeseesnenseesees 20
SECTION 15. SEVERABILITY CLAUSE, sscsececsssssssesssesssssssnsetsessninnssssssisnesistinase 21
SECTION 16. COUNTERPARTS. ccccsssssssssssssscssssscssssssssssssssveseccassessesssrssssueseseccessessanesnsseeseseees 21
SECTION 17. INTENTION OF THE PARTIES. cceccssscsssssssscssssssssssssssssssssvssvssessesentsssvssesesensee 21
SECTION 18. SUCCESSORS AND ASSIGNS; ASSIGNMENT OF AGREEMENT. ........- 22
SECTION 19. WAIVERS, -ccsssccscssesscscsssssssessessssssssessssssssssessececessssssuesesssesssesntsnesensesessuensenseseseete 22
SECTION 20. EXHIBITS. ...cccsssssssssssssssssssessssessssessssciseccssssssuessssssssuvusesssssesssnseseesessannenesssseeee 22
SECTION 21. GENERAL INTERPRETIVE PRINCIPLES. .....sccssessssssssssssssssssscsessesssevsseeseeeee 22
SECTION 22. REPRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS.....sscsssscssscssessssssssscssssssvvsesserssstesseseseees 23
USActive 8685293.11 -j-


SECTION 23.
SECTION 24.
SECTION 25.
SECTION 26.
SECTION 27.

SECTION 28.

EXHIBIT A-1

EXHIBIT A-2 —

EXHIBIT B
EXHIBIT C
EXHIBIT D
EXHIBIT E
EXHIBIT F

USActive 8685293.11

FURTHER AGREEMENTS. ...csssessssssses seusluiciudsuvdscuusscewtstiiectutestssascueviasenistve 23
RECORDATION OF ASSIGNMENTS OF MORTGAGE. .0....cessssesssessseesseeess 23
NO SOLICITATION. ..sccssecsssssssssessosssssessecssssssssessesssssssssessecssecsuassssneessessseuesseven 23
WAIVER OF TRIAL BY JURY. wcsccsccssccssssssssssesssssssesssssssessvenes sabbasautisbn esses D4
GOVERNING LAW JURISDICTION; CONSENT TO SERVICE OF

PROCESS .oussccssssssscssssscssusssecscseessssesssccssesssusssucessuessussssssssssessscsssessecsesucassuessseessees 24
PRIVACY ACT COMPLIANCE. u.eccscssssessssssssssssssessosesssescsecssvsssesssusssssssasessseen 25

EXHIBITS

MORTGAGE LOAN DOCUMENTS
CONTENTS OF EACH MORTGAGE FILE

- MORTGAGE LOAN SCHEDULE

PRIOR PURCHASE AGREEMENTS AND SERVICING AGREEMENTS
FORM OF ASSIGNMENT AND ASSUMPTION AGREEMENT
NON-TRANSFERRED LOANS

MORTGAGE LOAN REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES

“ji


- MORTGAGE LOAN PURCHASE AND WARRANTIES AGREEMENT

This MORTGAGE LOAN PURCHASE AND WARRANTIES AGREEMENT,

dated as of May 1, 2007 (“Agreement”), is between EMC Mortgage Corporation, a Delaware
corporation (the “Purchaser”), and Morgan Stanley Mortgage Capital Inc., a New York
corporation (the “‘Seller’).

WITNESSETH:

WHEREAS, the Seller has purchased certain conventional fixed and adjustable
rate residential first and second lien mortgage loans (the “Mortgage Loans”) from various
originators (each, an “Originator”) on certain purchase dates (each, a “Purchase Date”) pursuant
to the Prior Purchase Agreements;

WHEREAS, the Seller desires to sell to the Purchaser, and the Purchaser desires
to purchase from the Seller, the Mortgage Loans on a servicing retained basis as described
herein;

WHEREAS, each Mortgage Loan is secured by a mortgage, deed of trust or other
security instrument creating a first or second lien on a residential dwelling located in the
jurisdiction indicated on the Mortgage Loan Schedule; and

WHEREAS, the Purchaser and the Seller wish to prescribe the manner of the
conveyance and control of the Mortgage Loans.

NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and mutual agreements set
forth herein, and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which
are hereby acknowledged, the Purchaser and the Seller agree as follows:

SECTION 1. Definitions.

For purposes of this Agreement the following capitalized terms shall have the
respective meanings set forth below.

Accepted Servicing Practices: With respect to any Mortgage Loan, those
mortgage servicing practices which are in accordance with accepted mortgage servicing practices
of prudent mortgage lending institutions which service mortgage loans of the same type as such
Mortgage Loan in the jurisdiction where the related Mortgaged Property is located.

Adjustable Rate Mortgage Loan: A Mortgage Loan purchased pursuant to this
Agreement, the Mortgage Interest Rate of which is adjusted from time to time in accordance with
the terms of the related Mortgage Note.

USActive 8685293.11


Affiliate: With respect to any specified Person, any other Person controlling or
controlled by or under common control with such specified Person. For the purposes of this
definition, “control” when used with respect to any specified Person means the power to direct
the management and policies of such Person, directly or indirectly, whether through the
ownership of voting securities, by contract or otherwise and the terms “controlling” and
“controlled” have meanings correlative to the foregoing.

Agreement: This Mortgage Loan Purchase and Warranties Agreement including
all exhibits, schedules, amendments and supplements hereto.

ALTA: The American Land Title Association or any successor thereto.

Appraised Value: The value set forth in an appraisal made in connection with the
origination of the related Mortgage Loan as the value of the Mortgaged Property.

Assignment and Assumption Agreement: As defined in Subsection 6.01.

Assignment of Mortgage: An individual assignment of the Mortgage, notice of
transfer or equivalent instrument in recordable form and in blank, sufficient under the laws of the
jurisdiction in which the related Mortgaged Property is located to give record notice of the sale
of the Mortgage to the Purchaser.

Business Day: Any day other than (i) a Saturday or Sunday or (ii) a day on which
banking and savings and loan institutions in the State of New York or State of Texas are
authorized or obligated by law or executive order to be closed.

Closing Date: May 31, 2007

CLTV: As of any date and as to any Second Lien Loan, the ratio, expressed as a
percentage, of the (a) sum of (i) the outstanding principal balance of the Second Lien Loan and
(ii) the outstanding principal balance as of such date of any mortgage loan or mortgage loans that
are senior or equal in priority to the Second Lien Loan and which are secured by the same
Mortgaged Property to (b) the Appraised Value as determined pursuant to the Underwriting
Guidelines of the related Mortgaged Property as of the origination of the Second Lien Loan.

Code: The Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.

Condemnation Proceeds: All awards, compensation and settlements in respect of
a taking of all or part of a Mortgaged Property, whether permanent or temporary, partial or
entire, by exercise of the power of condemnation or the right of eminent domain, to the extent
not required to be released to a Mortgagor in accordance with the terms of the related Mortgage
Loan Documents.

Co-op: A private, cooperative housing corporation, having only one class of
stock outstanding, which owns or leases land and all or part of a building or buildings, including
apartments, spaces used for commercial purposes and common areas therein and whose board of
directors authorizes the sale of stock and the issuance of a Co-op Lease.

USActive 8685293.11 ~2-
 apg to
nena

Pies
ra
vt
awe



Co-op Lease: With respect to a Co-op Loan, the lease with respect to a dwelling
unit occupied by the Mortgagor and relating to the stock allocated to the related dwelling unit.

dwelling unit in a residential cooperative housing corporation and a collateral assignment of the
related Co-op Lease.

Co-op UCC Filing: With respect to a Co-op Loan, a financing statement in the
form of a UCC-1 filed pursuant to the Uniform Commercial Code to perfect a security interest in
the relevant Co-op stock and Co-op Lease.

Covered Loan: A Mortgage Loan categorized as Covered pursuant to Appendix E
of Standard & Poor’s Glossary.

Custodian: With respect to each Mortgage Loan, the custodian specified on the
Mortgage Loan Schedule attached as Exhibit B hereto.

Cut-off Date: June 1, 2007.

Deleted Mortgage Loan: A Mortgage Loan that is repurchased or to be
repurchase or replaced with a Qualified Substitute Mortgage Loan by the Seller in accordance
with the terms of this Agreement.

| Delinquent: With respect to any Mortgage Loan, means any Monthly Payment
due on a Due Date that is not made by the close of business on the next scheduled Due Date for
that Mortgage Loan.

Due Date: The day of the month on which the Monthly Payment is due on a
Mortgage Loan, exclusive of any days of grace.

Escrow Payments: With respect to any Mortgage Loan, the amounts constituting
ground rents, taxes, assessments, water rates, sewer rents, municipal charges, mortgage insurance
premiums, fire and hazard insurance premiums, condominium charges, and any other payments
required to be escrowed by the Mortgagor with the Mortgagee pursuant to the Mortgage or any
other document. |

Fannie Mae: The Federal National Mortgage Association, or any successor

thereto.

FHA: The Federal Housing Administration, an agency within the United States
Department of Housing and Urban Development, or any successor thereto and including the
Federal Housing Commissioner and the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development where
appropriate under the FHA Regulations.

First Lien Loan: A Mortgage Loan secured by a first lien Mortgage on the related
Mortgaged Property.

USActive 8685293.11 . -3-

Co-op Loan: A Mortgage Loan secured by the pledge of stock allocated toa


Fixed Rate Mortgage Loan: A fixed rate mortgage loan purchased pursuant to

this Agreement.

FPD: First payment default provisions regarding certain Mortgage Loans, as
described in Subsection 8.03.

Freddie Mac: The Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation, or any successor

thereto.

Gross Margin: With respect to each Adjustable Rate Mortgage Loan, the fixed
percentage amount set forth in the related Mortgage Note which amount is added to the Index in
accordance with the terms of the related Mortgage Note to determine on each Interest Rate
Adjustment Date the Mortgage Interest Rate for such Mortgage Loan.

Group 1 Mortgage Loans: Mortgage Loans purchased by the Seller from Aames
Capital Corporation, Aegis Mortgage Corporation, Decision One Mortgage Company, LLC,
Meritage Mortgage Corporation, MILA, Inc., NC Capital Corporation and Option One Mortgage
Corporation, Option One Owner Trust 2001-1A, Option One Owner Trust 2001-1B, Option One
Owner Trust 2001-2, Option One Owner Trust 2002-3, Option One Owner Trust 2003-4 and
Option One Owner Trust 2003-5.

High Cost Loan: A Mortgage Loan (a) covered by the Home Ownership and
Equity Protection Act of 1994 (“HOEPA”), (b) classified as a “high cost home,” “threshold,”
“covered,” (excluding New Jersey “Covered Home Loans” as that term was defined in clause (1)
of the definition of that term in the New Jersey Home Ownership Security Act of 2002 that were
originated between November 26, 2003 and July 7, 2004), “high risk home,” “predatory” or
similar loan under any other applicable state, federal or local law which expressly exposes
assignees of mortgage loans to civil or criminal liability or damages or to regulatory action or
enforcement proceedings or penalties, or (c) categorized as High Cost pursuant to Appendix E of
Standard & Poor’s Glossary.

HUD: The Department of Housing and Urban Development, or any federal
agency or Official thereof which may from time to time succeed to the functions thereof with
regard to Mortgage Insurance issued by the FHA. The term “HUD,” for purposes of this
Agreement, is also deemed to include subdivisions thereof such as the FHA and Government
National Mortgage Association.

Index: The index indicated in the related Mortgage Note for each Adjustable Rate
Mortgage Loan.

Insurance Proceeds: With respect to each Mortgage Loan, proceeds of insurance
policies insuring the Mortgage Loan or the related Mortgaged Property.

Interest Rate Adjustment Date: With respect to each Adjustable Rate Mortgage
Loan, the date, specified in the related Mortgage Note and the Mortgage Loan Schedule, on
which the Mortgage Interest Rate is adjusted.

USActive 8685293.11 4.


Interim Funder: With respect to each MERS Designated Mortgage Loan, the
Person named on the MERS System as the interim funder pursuant to the MERS Procedures
Manual.

Investor: With respect to each MERS Designated Mortgage Loan, the Person
named on the MERS System as the investor pursuant to the MERS Procedures Manual.

Letter Agreement: That certain letter agreement, dated as of May 30, 2007,
between Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated and Bear, Stearns & Co. Inc., related to a proposed
Securitization Transaction.

Lifetime Rate Cap: The provision of each Mortgage Note related to an
- Adjustable Rate Mortgage Loan which provides for an absolute maximum Mortgage Interest
Rate thereunder. The Mortgage Interest Rate during the terms of each Adjustable Rate Mortgage
Loan shall not at any time exceed the Mortgage Interest Rate at the time of origination of such
Adjustable Rate Mortgage Loan by more than the amount per annum set forth on the Mortgage
Loan Schedule.

Liquidation Proceeds: The proceeds received in connection with the liquidation
of a defaulted Mortgage Loan, whether through the sale or assignment of such Mortgage Loan,
trustee’s sale, foreclosure sale or otherwise or the sale of the related Mortgaged Property if the
Mortgaged Property is acquired in satisfaction of the Mortgage Loan.

Loan-to-Value Ratio: With respect to any Mortgage Loan, as of any date of
determination, ‘the ratio (expressed as a percentage) the numerator of which is the outstanding
principal balance of the Mortgage Loan as of the Cut-off Date (unless otherwise indicated), and
the denominator of which is the lesser of (a) the Appraised Value of the Mortgaged Property at
origination and (b) if the Mortgage Loan was made to finance the acquisition of the related
_ Mortgaged Property, the purchase price of the Mortgaged Property.

Manufactured Home: A single family residential unit that is constructed in a
factory in sections in accordance with the Federal Manufactured Home Construction and Safety
Standards adopted on July 15, 1976, by the Department of Housing and Urban Development
(“HUD Code”), as amended in 2000, which preempts state and local building codes. Each unit is
identified by the presence of a HUD Plate/Compliance Certificate label.. The sections are then
transported to the site and joined together and affixed to a pre-built permanent foundation (which
satisfies the manufacturer’s requirements and all state, county, and local building codes and
regulations). The manufactured home is built on a non-removable, permanent frame chassis that
supports the complete unit of walls, floors, and roof. The underneath part of the home may have
running gear (wheels, axles, and brakes) that enable it to be transported to the permanent site. .
The wheels and hitch are removed prior to anchoring the unit to the permanent foundation. The
manufactured home must be classified as real estate and taxed accordingly. The permanent
foundation may be on land owned by the Mortgagor or may be on leased land.

MERS: Mortgage Electronic Registration Systems, Inc., a Delaware corporation,
and its successors in interest.

USActive 8685293.11 -5-



MERS Designated Mortgage Loan: Mortgage Loans for which (a) the Seller has
designated or will designate MERS as, and has taken or will take such action as is necessary to
cause MERS to be, the mortgagee of record, as nominee for the Seller, in accordance with
MERS Procedure Manual and (b) the Seller has designated or will designate the Purchaser as the
Investor on the MERS System.

MERS Procedure Manual: The MERS Procedures Manual, as it may be
amended, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time.

MERS System: MERS mortgage electronic registry system, as more particularly
described in the MERS Procedures Manual.

Monthly Payment: With respect to any Mortgage Loan, the scheduled payment of
principal and interest payable by a Mortgagor under the related Mortgage Note on each Due
Date.

Mortgage: With respect to a Mortgage Loan that is not a Co-op Loan, the
mortgage, deed of trust or other instrument securing a Mortgage Note, which creates a first lien
on the Mortgaged Property. With respect to a Co-op Loan, the Security Agreement.

Mortgage File: With respect to any Mortgage Loan, the Mortgage Loan
Documents and the items listed in Exhibit A-2 hereto (to the extent in the possession of the
applicable Servicer) and any additional documents required to be added to the Mortgage File
pursuant to this Agreement.

Mortgage Interest Rate: With respect to each Mortgage Loan, the annual rate at
which interest accrues on such Mortgage Loan from time to time in accordance with the
provisions of the related Mortgage Note.

Mortgage Interest Rate Cap: With respect to an Adjustable Rate Mortgage Loan,
the limit on each Mortgage Interest Rate adjustment as set forth in the related Mortgage Note.

Mortgage Loan: Each mortgage loan sold, assigned and transferred pursuant to
this Agreement and identified on the Mortgage Loan Schedule, which Mortgage Loan includes,
without limitation, the Mortgage File, the Monthly Payments, Principal Prepayments,
Liquidation Proceeds, Condemnation Proceeds, Insurance Proceeds and all other rights, benefits,
proceeds and obligations arising from or in connection with such Mortgage Loan, excluding
replaced or repurchased mortgage loans.

Mortgage Loan Documents: With respect to any Mortgage Loan, the documents
required to be delivered to the Purchaser or its designee pursuant to Subsection 6.03 hereto.

Mortgage Loan Schedule: The schedule of Mortgage Loans setting forth the
following information with respect to each Mortgage Loan: (1) the Seller’s Mortgage Loan
identifying number; (2) the Mortgagor’s name; (3) the street address of the Mortgaged Property
including the city, state and zip code; (4) a code indicating whether the Mortgaged Property is
owner-occupied, investment property or a second home; (5) the number and type of residential
units constituting the Mortgaged Property (e.g. single family residence, a two- to four-family

USActive 8685293.11 -6-


dwelling, condominium, planned unit development or cooperative); (6) the original months to
maturity or the remaining months to maturity from the Cut-off Date, in any case based on the
original amortization schedule and, if different, the maturity expressed in the same manner but

based on the actual amortization schedule; (7) with respect to each First Lien Loan; the Loan-to-—
Value Ratio at origination, and with respect to each Second Lien Loan, the CLTV at origination;
(8) the Mortgage Interest Rate as of the Cut-off Date; (9) the date on which the first Monthly
Payment was due on the Mortgage Loan and, if such date is not consistent with the Due Date
currently in effect, the Due Date; (10) the stated maturity date; (11) the amount of the Monthly
Payment as of the Cut-off Date; (12) the last payment date on which a payment was actually
applied to the outstanding principal balance; (13) the original principal amount of the Mortgage
Loan; (14) the actual principal balance of the Mortgage Loan as of the close of business on the
Cut-off Date, after deduction of payments of principal collected on or before the Cut-off Date;
(15) with respect to Adjustable Rate Mortgage Loans, the Interest Rate Adjustment Date;
(16) with respect to Adjustable Rate Mortgage Loans, the Gross Margin; (17) with respect to
Adjustable Rate Mortgage Loans, the Lifetime Rate Cap under the terms of the Mortgage Note;
(18) with respect to Adjustable Rate Mortgage Loans, a code indicating the type of Index;
(19) the type of Mortgage Loan (i.e., Fixed or Adjustable Rate Mortgage Loan, First or Second
Lien Loan); (20) a code indicating the purpose of the loan (i.e., purchase, rate/term refinance or
cash-out refinance); (21) the Originator; (22) the Servicer; (23) the Custodian; (24) the Purchase
Date and (25) the Appraised Value. The Mortgage Loan Schedule is attached as Exhibit B
hereto.

Mortgage Note: The note or other evidence of the indebtedness of a Mortgagor
secured by a Mortgage.

Mortgaged Property: With respect to a Mortgage Loan that is not a Co-op Loan,
the Mortgagor’s real property securing repayment of a related Mortgage Note, consisting of an
unsubordinated estate in fee simple or, with respect to real property located in jurisdictions in
which the use of leasehold estates for residential properties is a widely-accepted practice, a
leasehold estate, in a single parcel or multiple parcels of real property improved by a Residential
Dwelling. With respect to a Co-op Loan, the stock allocated to a dwelling unit in the residential
cooperative housing corporation that was pledged to secure such Co-op Loan and the related Co-
op Lease.

Mortgagee: The ‘mortgagee or beneficiary named in the Mortgage and the
successors and assigns of such mortgagee or beneficiary.

Mortgagor: The obligor on the related Mortgage Note.

Originator: As defined in the Recitals hereto.

Periodic Rate Cap: The provision of each Mortgage Note related to an Adjustable
Rate Mortgage Loan which provides for an absolute maximum amount by which the Mortgage
Interest Rate there may increase or decrease on an Interest Rate Adjustment Date above or
below the Mortgage Interest Rate previously in effect. The Periodic Rate Cap for each
Adjustable Rate Mortgage Loan is the rate set forth as such on the Mortgage Loan Schedule.

USActive 8685293.11 -7-


Person: Any individual, corporation, partnership, limited liability company, joint
venture, association, joint-stock company, trust, unincorporated organization, government or any
agency or political subdivision thereof, :

Prepayment Penalty: With respect to each Mortgage Loan, the amount of any
premium or penalty required to be paid by the Mortgagor if the Mortgagor prepays such
Mortgage Loan as provided in the related Mortgage Note or Mortgage.

Principal Prepayment: Any payment or other recovery of principal on a Mortgage
Loan which is received in advance of its scheduled Due Date, including any prepayment penalty
or premium thereon, and which is not accompanied by an amount of interest representing
scheduled interest due on any date or dates in any month or months subsequent to the month of
prepayment.

Prior Purchase Agreement: With respect to each Mortgage Loan, the applicable
Prior Purchase Agreement set forth on Exhibit _C attached hereto, under which the Seller
acquired such Mortgage Loan from the related Originator. .

Purchase Date: As defined in the Recitals hereto.

a

Purchase Price: The price paid on the Closing Date by the Purchaser to the Seller
in exchange for the Mortgage Loans purchased on the Closing Date as calculated in Section 4 of
this Agreement.

. Purchase Price Percentage: The purchase price percentage for the Mortgage
Loans set forth in the Letter Agreement.

Purchaser: EMC Mortgage Corporation, a Delaware corporation, and its -
successors in interest.

Qualified Appraiser: An appraiser, duly appointed by the Seller, who had no
interest, direct or indirect, in the Mortgaged Property or in any loan made on the security thereof,
and whose compensation was not affected by the approval or disapproval of the Mortgage Loan,
and such appraiser and the appraisal made by such appraiser both satisfied the requirements of
Title XI of FIRREA and the regulations promulgated thereunder, all as in effect on the date the
Mortgage Loan was originated.

Qualified Correspondent: Any Person from which the Seller purchased Mortgage
Loans, provided that the following conditions are satisfied: (i) such Mortgage Loans were
originated pursuant to an agreement between the Seller and such Person that contemplated that
such Person would underwrite mortgage loans from time to time, for sale to the Seller, in
accordance with underwriting guidelines designated by the Seller (“Designated Guidelines”) or
guidelines that do not vary materially from such Designated Guidelines; (ii) such Mortgage
Loans were in fact underwritten as described in clause (i) above and were acquired by the Seller
within 180 days after origination; (iii) either (x) the Designated Guidelines were, at the time such
Mortgage Loans were originated, used by the Seller in origination of mortgage loans of the same
type as the Mortgage Loans for the Seller’s own account or (y) the Designated Guidelines were,
at the time such Mortgage Loans were underwritten, designated by the Seller on a consistent

USActive 8685293.11 -8-


basis for use by lenders in originating mortgage loans to be purchased by the Seller; and (iv) the
Seller employed, at the time such Mortgage Loans were acquired by the Seller, pre-purchase or
post-purchase quality assurance procedures (which may involve, among other things, review of a

sample of mortgage loans purchased during a particular time period or through particular
channels) designed to ensure that Persons from which it purchased mortgage loans properly
applied the underwriting criteria designated by the Seller.

Qualified Substitute Mortgage Loan: A mortgage loan eligible to be substituted
by the Seller for a Deleted Mortgage Loan which must, on the date of such substitution, (i) have
an outstanding principal balance, after deduction of all scheduled payments due in the month of
substitution (or in the case of a substitution of more than one mortgage loan for a Deleted
Mortgage Loan, an aggregate principal balance), not in excess of the outstanding principal
balance of the Deleted Mortgage Loan; (ii) have a Mortgage Interest Rate not less than and not
more than 1% greater than the Mortgage Interest Rate of the Deleted Mortgage Loan; (iii) have a
remaining term to maturity not greater than and not more than one year less than that of the
Deleted Mortgage Loan; (iv) be of the same type as the Deleted Mortgage Loan (1.e., fixed rate
or adjustable rate with same Mortgage Interest Rate Caps); (v) comply with each representation
and warranty (respecting individual Mortgage Loans) set forth in Section 8; and (vi) not have
been originated by New Century Mortgage Corporation or Fremont Investment & Loan or any of
their respective Affiliates, without the prior written consent of the Purchaser.

Rating Agency: Any of Fitch, Inc., Moody’s Investors Service, Inc. or Standard
& Poor’s Ratings Services, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies Inc., or their respective
successors designated by the Purchasers.

Reconstitution: As defined in Section 12.

Reconstitution Agreements: The agreement or agreements entered into by the
Seller and the Purchaser and/or certain third parties on the Reconstitution Date or Dates with
respect to any or all of the Mortgage Loans sold hereunder, in connection with a Securitization
Transaction pursuant to Section 12.

Reconstitution Date: As defined in Section 12.

REMIC: A “real estate mortgage investment conduit” within the meaning of
Section 860D of the Code.

Regulation AB: Subpart 229.1100 — Asset Backed Securities (Regulation AB),
17 C.F.R. §§229.1100-229.1123, as amended from time to time, and subject to such clarification
and interpretation as have been provided by the Commission in the adopting release (Asset-
Backed Securities, Securities Act Release No. 33-8518, 70 Fed. Reg. 1,506—1,631 (Jan. 7, 2005))
or by the staff of the Commission, or as may be provided by the Commission or its staff from
time to time.

Representations and Warranties: As defined in Subsection 8.02.

Repurchase Price: With respect to any Mortgage Loan to be repurchased by the
Seller pursuant to Section 8, the price equal to the sum of (a) the product of the Purchase Price

USActive 8685293.11 -9-



Percentage (or 100% if such Mortgage Loan is the subject of a Reconstitution) multiplied by the
Stated Principal Balance of such Mortgage Loan on the repurchase date, plus (b) the accrued
interest on such Stated Principal Balance at the Mortgage Interest Rate from the last interest paid
to date through which interest has been paid by or on behalf of the Mortgagor through the date
prior to the date of repurchase, plus, (c) the amount of any outstanding servicing advances owed
to any servicer, plus (d) the third party expenses incurred by the Purchaser in connection with the
repurchase and transfer of such Mortgage Loan.

Residential Dwelling: Any one of the following: (i) a detached one-family
dwelling, (ii) a detached two- to four-family dwelling, (iii) a one-family dwelling unit in a
condominium project, (iv) a one-family dwelling in a planned unit development, (v) a Co-op or
(vi) a Manufactured Home, none of which is a mobile home.

Saxon: Saxon Mortgage Services, Inc., a Texas corporation, and its successors in
interest and assigns.

Second Lien Loan: A Mortgage Loan secured by a second lien Mortgage on the
related Mortgaged Property.

Securitization Transaction: Any transaction involving either (1) a sale or other
transfer of some or all of the Mortgage Loans directly or indirectly to an issuing entity in
connection with an issuance of publicly offered or privately placed, rated or unrated
mortgage-backed securities or (2) an issuance of publicly offered or privately placed, rated or
unrated securities, the payments on which are determined primarily by reference to one or more
portfolios of residential mortgage loans consisting, in whole or in part, of some or all of the
Mortgage Loans.

Security Agreement: The agreement creating a security interest in the stock
allocated to a dwelling unit in the residential cooperative housing corporation that was pledged to
secure such Co-op Loan and the related Co-op Lease.

Seller: As defined in the initial paragraph of this Agreement, and its successors in
interest and assigns.

Seller Information. As defined in Section 12.

Servicer: With respect to each Mortgage Loan, the Servicer set forth on Exhibit B
attached hereto.

Servicing Agreement: With respect to each Mortgage Loan, the applicable
Servicing Agreement set forth on Exhibit C attached hereto.

Servicing Fee: With respect to each Mortgage Loan, the fee payable to the
Servicer of such Mortgage Loan under the applicable Servicing Agreement.

Servicing Rights: Any and all of the following: (a) any and all rights to service
the Mortgage Loans; (b) any payments to or monies received by the Seller for servicing the
Mortgage Loans; (c) any late fees, penalties or similar payments with respect to the Mortgage

USActive 8685293.11 -10-



Loans; (d) all agreements or documents creating, defining or evidencing any such servicing
rights to the extent they relate to such servicing rights and all rights of the Seller thereunder;
(e) Escrow Payments or other similar payments with respect to the Mortgage Loans and any
amounts-actually collected by the Seller with respect thereto; (f) all accounts and other rights to _
payment related to any of the property described-in this paragraph; and (g) any and all
documents, files, records, servicing files, servicing documents, servicing records, data tapes,
computer records, or other information pertaining to the Mortgage Loans or pertaining to the
past, present or prospective servicing of the Mortgage Loans.

Stated Principal Balance: As to each Mortgage Loan on any date of
determination, (i) the principal balance of such Mortgage Loan at the Cut-off Date after giving
effect to payments of principal due on or before such date, minus (ii) all amounts previously
distributed to the Purchaser with respect to the related Mortgage Loan representing payments or
recoveries of principal on such Mortgage Loan.

SECTION 2. Agreement to Purchase Mortgage Loans.

The Seller agrees to sell, and the Purchaser agrees to purchase, on a servicing
retained basis, Mortgage Loans having an aggregate Stated Principal Balance on the Cut-off Date
in an amount set forth on the Mortgage Loan Schedule, together with the related Mortgage Files
and all rights and obligations arising under the documents contained therein.

SECTION 3. Mortgage Schedule.

The Seller shall deliver the Mortgage Loan Schedule for the Mortgage Loans to
be purchased on the Closing Date to the Purchaser at least two (2) Business Days prior to the
Closing Date; provided, however, that the Seller shall not be responsible for any delays in the
delivery of the Mortgage Loan Schedule caused by changes to the Mortgage Loans made at the
Purchaser’s request, so long as the Seller delivers the Mortgage Loan Schedule within a
reasonable period of time after such changes are requested.

SECTION 4. Purchase Price.

The Purchase Price for the Mortgage Loans shall be equal to the Purchase Price
Percentage multiplied by the aggregate Stated Principal Balance of the Mortgage Loans listed on
the Mortgage Loan Schedule, after application of payments of principal due or received on or
before the Cut-off Date. The Purchase Price shall be paid to the Seller by wire transfer of
immediately available funds to an account designated by the Seller in writing.

The Purchaser shall be entitled to (1) all scheduled principal due after the Cut-off
Date, (2) all other recoveries of principal collected on or after the Cut-off Date, and (3) all
payments of interest on the Mortgage Loans that accrue from and after the Closing Date, net of
applicable Servicing Fees.

USActive 8685293.14 -]1-


SECTION 5. Examination of Mortgage Files.

On or prior to the Closing Date, the Seller shall, with respect to each Mortgage
Loan, cause the applicable Custodian (as set forth on the Mortgage Loan Schedule attached as
Exhibit B hereto) to make the related Mortgage File, including a copy of the Assignment of
Mortgage pertaining to each Mortgage Loan, available to the Purchaser for Purchaser’s review. .
Such examination may be made by the Purchaser or its designee at any reasonable time before
the Closing Date. The Purchaser may, at its option and without notice to the Seller, purchase
some or all of the Mortgage Loans without conducting any partial or complete examination. The
fact that the Purchaser or its designee has conducted or has failed to conduct any partial or
complete examination of the Mortgage Files shall not affect the Purchaser’s (or any of its
successor’s) rights to demand repurchase or substitution as provided herein.

SECTION 6. Conveyance from Seller to Purchaser.

Subsection 6.01 Conveyance of Mortgage Loans.

The Seller, simultaneously with the execution and delivery of this Agreement,
does hereby sell, transfer, assign, set over and convey to the Purchaser, without recourse, but
subject to the terms of this Agreement, all right, title and interest of the Seller in and to the
Mortgage Loans and the Mortgage Files and all rights and obligations arising under the
documents contained therein, except with respect to the Servicing Rights. In addition, on the
Closing Date the Seller shall assign to the Purchaser the Prior Purchase Agreements (except with
respect to the Group 1 Mortgage Loans) and the related Servicing Agreements solely with
respect to the related Mortgage Loans pursuant to an assignment and assumption agreement
substantially in the form attached as Exhibit D hereto (the “Assignment and Assumption

Agreement”).

Subsection 6.02 Books and Records.

Record title to each Mortgage and the related Mortgage Note as of the Closing
Date shall be in the name of the Seller or an Affiliate of the Seller; provided, however, that if a
Mortgage has been recorded in the name of MERS or its designee, the Seller is shown as the
owner of the related Mortgage Loan on the records of MERS for purposes of the system of
recording transfers of beneficial ownership of mortgages maintained by MERS.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, ownership of each Mortgage and related Mortgage Note shall be
_ vested solely in the Purchaser or the appropriate designee of the Purchaser, as the case may be.
All rights arising out of the Mortgage Loans including, but not limited to, all funds received by
the Seller or its designee after the Cut-off Date on or in connection with a Mortgage Loan shall
be vested in the Purchaser or one or more designees of the Purchaser; provided, however, that all
funds received on or in connection with a Mortgage Loan that the. Seller is unable to promptly
forward to the Purchaser shall be received and held by the Seller or its designee in trust for the
benefit of the Purchaser or the appropriate designee of the Purchaser, as the case may be, as the
owner of the Mortgage Loans pursuant to the terms of this Agreement.

It is the express intention of the parties that the transactions contemplated by this
Agreement be, and be construed as, a sale of the Mortgage Loans by the Seller and not a pledge

USActive 8685293.11 -]2-


of such Mortgage Loans by the Seller to the Purchaser to secure a debt or other obligation of the
Seller. Consequently, the sale of each Mortgage Loan shall be reflected as a purchase on the
Purchaser’ s business records, tax returns and financial statements, and a asa a sale of assets 0 on the

Subsection 6.03 Mortgage Loan Documents.

On the Closing Date the Seller will cause the Custodians to deliver certifications
to the Purchaser specifying the Mortgage Loan Documents set forth on Exhibit A-1 hereto that
each Custodian is holding with respect to each Mortgage Loan. On the Closing Date, the Seller
shall authorize each Custodian to continue to hold the Mortgage Loan Documents in its
possession for and on behalf of the Purchaser upon the Seller’s receipt of the Purchase Price.
Thereafter the Purchaser shall pay all fees and expenses of the Custodians.

Subsection 6.04 MERS Designated Loans.

With respect to each MERS Designated Mortgage Loan, the Seller shall, promptly
following the Closing Date, designate the Purchaser or its named designee as the Investor and the
Purchaser or its designee as custodian, and no Person shall be listed as Interim Funder on the
MERS System.

SECTION 7. Servicing of the Mortgage Loans.

The Mortgage Loans have been sold by the Seller to the Purchaser on a servicing
retained basis.

On the Closing Date the Seller shall assign each Servicing Agreement to the
Purchaser pursuant to the Assignment and Assumption Agreement and shall cause the Mortgage
Loans to be serviced and administered in accordance with the related Servicing Agreement
pursuant to which each Mortgage Loan is serviced as of the Closing Date as set forth on the
Mortgage Loan Schedule attached as Exhibit C hereto. Thereafter, the related Servicer shall
continue to service the applicable Mortgage Loans for the Purchaser.

Notwithstanding the foregoing, with respect to certain Mortgage Loans described
on Exhibit E attached hereto (the “Non-transferred_ Loans”), the Seller has sold the related
Servicing Rights to Saxon. On the related Servicing Transfer Dates set forth on Exhibit E, the
Seller shall cause the related Servicer to transfer servicing with respect to the related Non-
transferred Loans to Saxon after which Saxon will continue to service such Non-Transferred
Loans for the Purchaser pursuant to the Servicing Agreement between the Seller and Saxon
referenced on Exhibit C hereto.

SECTION 8. Representations, Warranties and Covenants of the Seller:
Remedies for Breach.

USActive 8685293.11 . -13-


Subsection 8.01 Representations and Warranties Regarding the Seller.

The Seller represents, warrants and covenants to the Purchaser that as of the date
hereof and as of the Closing Date:

(a) Due Organization and Authority. The Seller is a corporation, validly
existing, and in good standing under the laws of its jurisdiction of incorporation or formation and
has all licenses necessary to carry on its business as now being-conducted and is licensed,
qualified and in good standing in the states where the Mortgaged Property is located if the laws
of such state require licensing or qualification in order to conduct business of the type conducted
by the Seller. The Seller has corporate power and authority to execute and deliver this
Agreement and to perform its obligations hereunder; the execution, delivery and performance of
this Agreement (including all instruments of transfer to be delivered pursuant to this Agreement)
by the Seller and the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby have been duly and
validly authorized; this Agreement has been duly executed and delivered and constitutes the
valid, legal, binding and enforceable obligation of the Seller, except as enforceability may be
limited by (i) bankruptcy, insolvency, liquidation, receivership, moratorium, reorganization or
other similar laws affecting the enforcement of the rights of creditors and (ii) general principles
of equity, whether enforcement is sought in a proceeding in equity or at law. All requisite
corporate action has been taken by the Seller to make this Agreement valid and binding upon the
Seller in accordance with its terms;

(b) | No Consent Required. No consent, approval, authorization or order is
required for the transactions contemplated by this Agreement from any court, governmental
agency or body, or federal or state regulatory authority having jurisdiction over the Seller is
required or, if required, such consent, approval, authorization or order has been or will, prior to
the Closing Date, be obtained;

(c) ~ Ordinary Course of Business. The consummation of the transactions
contemplated by this Agreement are in the ordinary course of business of the Seller;

(d) No Conflicts. Neither the execution and delivery of this Agreement, the
acquisition of the Mortgage Loans by the Seller, the sale of the Mortgage Loans to the Purchaser,
the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby, nor the fulfillment of or compliance
with the terms and conditions of this Agreement, will conflict with or result in a breach of any of
the terms, conditions or provisions of the Seller’s charter or by-laws;

(ce) No Litigation Pending. There is no action, suit, proceeding or
investigation pending or, to the best of Seller’s knowledge, threatened against the Seller, before
any court, administrative agency or other tribunal, asserting the invalidity of this Agreement,
seeking to prevent the consummation of any of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement,
or which would be likely to impair materially the ability of the Seller to perform under the terms
of this Agreement;

(f) Ability to Perform. The Seller does not believe, nor does it have any
reason or cause to believe, that it cannot perform each and every covenant contained in this
Agreement; and

USActive 8685293.14 -14-


(g) Sale Treatment. The Seller shall treat the disposition of the Mortgage
Loans pursuant to this Agreement as a sale for accounting and tax purposes.

anes Subsection 8.02---— Representations and Warranties Regarding Individual
Mortgage Loans: Remedies for Breach.

Pursuant to the Assignment and Assumption Agreement, the Purchaser shall be
the assignee of the representations and warranties of the related Originator (the “Representations
and Warranties”) and remedies for breaches thereof under the related Prior Purchase Agreements
as described in Subsection 6.01.

In addition, with respect to the Group 1 Mortgage Loans, the Seller hereby makes
the representations and warranties set forth on Part A of Exhibit F hereto to the Purchaser as of
the Closing Date. As to each Mortgage Loan, the Seller hereby makes the representations and
warranties set forth on Part B of Exhibit F hereto to the Purchaser as of the Closing Date. It is
understood and agreed that the covenants, representations and warranties of the Seller set forth in
this Agreement shall survive the sale of the Mortgage Loans to the Purchaser and shall inure to
the benefit of the Purchaser, notwithstanding any restrictive or qualified endorsement on any
Mortgage Note or Assignment of Mortgage or the examination or lack of examination of any
Mortgage File.

Notwithstanding the foregoing, within 120 days of the earlier of either discovery
by or receipt of notice by the Seller of the breach of a Representation and Warranty that
(1) materially and adversely affects the interests of the Purchaser in any Mortgage Loan (it being
understood that a breach of a representation set forth in clauses (N), (O), (R), (W) or (Y) of Part
A on Exhibit F with respect to a Group 1 Mortgage Loan will be deemed to have such a material
and adverse effect) and (2), with respect to non-Group 1 Mortgage Loans, if such Mortgage
Loan has not been cured, repurchased or substituted for by the applicable Originator in
accordance with the terms of the related Prior Purchase Agreement, the Seller shall take such
actions as described in the following paragraph.

The Seller shall use its best efforts promptly to cure such breach in all material
respects and, if such breach cannot be cured, the Seller shall, at the Purchaser’s option,
repurchase such Mortgage Loan at the Repurchase Price. In the event that a breach shall involve
any Representation and Warranty, and such breach cannot be cured within 120 days of the earlier
of either discovery by or notice to the Seller of such breach, all of the Mortgage Loans affected
by such breach shall, at the Purchaser’s option, be repurchased by the Seller at the Repurchase
Price. However, if the breach shall involve any Representation and Warranty and the Seller
discovers or receives notice of any such breach within 180 days of the Closing Date, the Seller
shall, at the Purchaser’s option and provided that the Seller has a Qualified Substitute Mortgage
Loan, rather than repurchase the Mortgage Loan as provided above, remove such Mortgage Loan
(a “Deleted Mortgage Loan’) and substitute in its place a Qualified Substitute Mortgage Loan or
Loans, provided that any such substitution shall be effected not later than 180 days after the
Closing Date. If the Seller has no Qualified Substitute Mortgage Loan, it shall repurchase the
deficient Mortgage Loan at the Repurchase Price. Any repurchase of a Mortgage Loan or Loans
pursuant to the foregoing provisions of this Subsection 8.02 shall be accomplished by direct

USActive 8685293.11 -[5-


remittance of the Repurchase Price to the Purchaser or its designee in accordance with the
Purchaser’s instructions.

At the time of repurchase or substitution, the Purchaser and the Seller shall
arrange for the reassignment of the Deleted Mortgage Loan to the Seller and the delivery to the
Seller of any documents held by the Purchaser or its designee relating to the Deleted Mortgage
Loan. In the event of a repurchase or substitution, the Seller shall, simultaneously with such
reassignment, give written notice to the Purchaser that such repurchase or substitution has taken
place, amend the Mortgage Loan Schedule to reflect the withdrawal of the Deleted Mortgage
Loan from this Agreement, and, in the case of substitution, identify a Qualified Substitute
Mortgage Loan and amend the Mortgage Loan Schedule to reflect the addition of such Qualified
Substitute Mortgage Loan to this Agreement. In connection with any such substitution, the
Seller shall be deemed to have made as to such Qualified Substitute Mortgage Loan the
representations and warranties set forth in this Agreement except that all such representations
and warranties set forth in this Agreement shall be deemed made as of the date of such
substitution. The Seller shall effect such substitution by delivering to the Purchaser or its
designee or to such other party as the Purchaser may designate in writing for such Qualified
Substitute Mortgage Loan the documents required by Subsection 6.03, with the Mortgage Note
endorsed as required by Subsection 6.03. The Seller shall remit, or shall cause to be remitted,
directly to the Purchaser, or its designee in accordance with the Purchaser’s instructions the
Monthly Payment less the Servicing Fee due, if any, on such Qualified Substitute Mortgage Loan
or Loans in the month following the date of such substitution. Monthly Payments due with
respect to Qualified Substitute Mortgage Loans in the month of substitution shall be retained by
the Seller. For the month of substitution, distributions to the Purchaser shall include the Monthly
Payment due on any Deleted Mortgage Loan in the month of substitution, and the Seller shall
thereafter be entitled to retain all amounts subsequently received by the Seller in respect of such
Deleted Mortgage Loan.

For any month in which the Seller substitutes a Qualified Substitute Mortgage
Loan for a Deleted Mortgage Loan, the Seller shall determine the amount (if any) by which the
ageregate principal balance of all Qualified Substitute Mortgage Loans as of the date of
substitution is less than the aggregate Stated Principal Balance of all Deleted Mortgage Loans
(after application of scheduled principal payments due in the month of substitution). The amount
of such shortfall shall be distributed by the Seller directly to the Purchaser or its designee in
accordance with the Purchaser’s instructions within two (2) Business Days of such substitution.

In addition to such repurchase or substitution obligation, and provided the
Mortgage Loans are not the subject of a Reconstitution, the Seller shall indemnify the Purchaser
and hold it harmless against any losses, damages, penalties, fines, forfeitures, reasonable and
necessary legal fees and related costs, judgments, and other costs and expenses resulting from
any claim, demand, defense or assertion based on or grounded upon, or resulting from a breach
of any representation or warranty set forth on Exhibit F hereto or any obligation of the Seller set
forth in Subsection 8.03. It is understood and agreed that the obligations of the Seller set forth in
this Subsection 8.02 to cure, substitute for, repurchase or indemnify (to the extent provided in the
preceding sentence) a defective Mortgage Loan constitute the sole remedies of the Purchaser
respecting a breach of the foregoing representations and warranties.

USActive 8685293.11 -16-



Any cause of action against the Seller relating to or arising out of the breach of
any representations and warranties made in Subsections 8.01 and 8.02 shall accrue as to any
Mortgage Loan upon (i) discovery of such breach by the Purchaser or the Servicer or notice
thereof by the Seller or the Servicer to the Purchaser and (ii) failure by the Seller to cure such
breach or repurchase such Mortgage Loan as specified above.

Subsection 8.03 Repurchase of Mortgage Loans with First Payment

Defaults.

Pursuant to the Assignment and Assumption Agreement, the Purchaser shall be
the beneficiary of the FPD provisions under the related Prior Purchase Agreement. In the event a
Mortgage Loan suffers a FPD following the Closing Date and the related Originator does not
repurchase such Mortgage Loan as described in the related Prior Purchase Agreement, the Seller
agrees to undertake such remedial actions as described in the related Prior Purchase Agreement
as if the Seller were the applicable Originator.

In addition, in the event that any Mortgage Loan is not the subject of a
Reconstitution as a result of a breach of the representation set forth in clause (D) of Part B of
Exhibit F, or in the event that the May 2007 Monthly Payment with respect to any Mortgage
Loan that had a paid-through date (as set forth on the Mortgage Loan Schedule) in April 2007 is
not made by June 28, 2007 and such Mortgage Loan has not been the subject of a Reconstitution
in June 2007, the Seller shall repurchase such Mortgage Loan promptly after receipt of notice
from the Purchaser.

SECTION 9. Closing. The closing for the purchase and sale of each Mortgage
Loan shall take place on the Closing Date. At the Purchaser’s option, the Closing shall be either:
by telephone, confirmed by letter or wire as the parties shall agree, or conducted in person, at
such place as the parties shall agree.

The closing for the Mortgage Loans to be purchased on each Closing Date shall
be subject to each of the following conditions:

(i) prior to the Closing Date, the Seller shall deliver to the Purchaser a
magnetic diskette, or transmit by modem, a listing on a loan-level basis of
the necessary information to compute the Purchase Price of the Mortgage
Loans delivered on the Closing Date (including accrued interest), and
prepare a complete Mortgage Loan Schedule;

(ii) all of the representations and warranties of the Seller under this
Agreement shall be true and correct as of the Closing Date and no event
shall have occurred which, with notice or the passage of time, would
constitute a default under this Agreement;

(iii) the Purchaser shall have received, or the Purchaser’s attorneys shall have

received in escrow, all closing documents as specified in Section 10 of this
Agreement, in such forms as are agreed upon and acceptable to the

USActive 8685293.11 -|7-



(iv)

(v)

Purchaser, duly executed by all signatories other than the Purchaser as
required pursuant to the terms hereof;

the Seller shall have released to the Purchaser all documents required
pursuant to this Agreement; and

all other terms and conditions of this Agreement (unless waived) shall
have been complied with.

Subject to the foregoing conditions, the Purchaser shall pay to the Seller on the
Closing Date the Purchase Price by wire transfer of immediately available funds to the account
designated by the Seller.

SECTION 10. Closing Documents.

The Closing Documents for the Mortgage Loans to be purchased on each Closing
Date shall consist of fully executed originals of the following documents:

1.

this Agreement (to be executed and delivered only for the initial Closing
Date);

the Mortgage Loan Schedule;

the Assignment and Assumption Agreement with respect to the Prior
Purchase Agreements and Servicing Agreements;

certifications from the Seller’s Custodians in accordance with Subsection
6.03, as required under this Agreement; and

the Letter Agreement.

SECTION 11. Costs.

The Seller shall pay any commissions due its salesmen, the legal fees and
expenses of its attorneys, recordation fees for the Mortgage and Assignment of Mortgage, the
Co-op UCC Filing and fees for the title policy endorsements and continuations. All other costs
and expenses incurred in connection with the transfer and delivery of the Mortgage Loans
including, without limitation, due diligence fees, and the fees and expenses of Purchaser’s
counsel, shall be paid by the Purchaser.

SECTION 12. Cooperation of Seller with a Reconstitution.

The Seller and the Purchaser agree that with respect to the Mortgage Loans, after
the Closing Date, on one or more dates (each, a “Reconstitution Date”) at the Purchaser’s sole
option, the Purchaser may effect a sale (each, a “Reconstitution”) of some or all of the Mortgage
Loans then subject to this Agreement, without recourse, to one or more trusts or other entities to
be formed as part of a Securitization Transaction.

USActive 8685293.11

-18-


Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Purchaser shall be limited to one (1)
Reconstitution in connection with the Mortgage Loans.

Seller agrees (1) to cooperate fully with the Purchaser and any prospective purchaser with
respect to all reasonable requests and (2) to execute, deliver and perform any Reconstitution
Agreement reasonably required by the Purchaser and reasonably acceptable to the Seller and not
inconsistent with the terms of this Agreement. The Seller shall use its reasonable best efforts to
provide to such master servicer or issuer, as the case may be, and any other participants in such
Reconstitution: (i) any and all information and appropriate verification of information which
may be reasonably available to the Seller or its affiliates, whether through letters of its auditors
and counsel or otherwise, as the Purchaser or any such other participant shall reasonably request;
and (ii) such additional opinions of counsel, letters from auditors, and certificates of public
officials or officers of the Seller as are reasonably believed necessary by the Purchaser or any
such other participant. -

In addition, in connection with the reconstitution provisions in the related Prior
Purchase Agreements assigned to the Purchaser pursuant to Subsection 6.01, each Originator
shall make the related Representations and Warranties in the related Reconstitution Agreement
as of the Reconstitution Date, to the extent required thereunder. In connection with the same,
and to the extent required in connection with a Securitization Transaction, in the event any
Originator does not remedy any breach of a Representation and Warranty as required, the Seller
hereby agrees to repurchase or substitute the affected Mortgage Loan as if it were the related
Originator.

All Mortgage Loans not sold or transferred pursuant to a Reconstitution shall
remain subject to this Agreement and with respect thereto this Agreement shall remain in full
force and effect.

In connection with a Reconstitution, the Seller shall deliver to the Purchaser
within 5 Business Days after request by the Purchaser such information (the “Seller
Information”) with respect to the Seller, as sponsor, as is required under Item 1105(a)(1)-(3) and
(c), 1117, 1119(a), (b) and (c) of Regulation AB.

The Seller shall indemnify the Purchaser and each affiliate of the Purchaser that
acts as depositor, underwriter or initial purchaser in the Securitization Transaction, each other
broker dealer acting as underwriter, placement agent or initial purchaser, each Person who
controls any of such parties (within the meaning of Section 15 of the Securities Act and Section
20 of the Exchange Act), and shall hold each of them harmless from and against any losses,
damages, penalties, fines, forfeitures, legal fees and expenses and related costs, judgments, and
any other costs, fees and expenses that any of them may sustain arising out of or based upon (A)
any untrue statement of a material fact contained or alleged to be contained in the Seller
Information, (B) the omission or alleged omission to state in the Seller Information a material
fact required to be stated in the Seller Information or necessary in order to make the statements
therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; provided,
by way of clarification, that clause (B) of this paragraph shall be construed solely by reference to
the Seller Information and not to any other information communicated in connection with a sale

USActive 8685293.11 -19-


or purchase of securities, without regard to whether the Seller Information or any portion thereof
is presented together with or separately from such other information or (C) any failure by the
Seller to deliver the Seller Information as described in the previous paragraph.

SECTION 13. Grant of Security Interest.

The Seller hereby grants to the Purchaser a lien on and a continuing security
interest in each Mortgage Loan and each document and instrument evidencing each such
Mortgage Loan to secure the performance by the Seller of its obligations under this Agreement,
and the Seller agrees that it shall hold such Mortgage Loans in custody for the Purchaser subject
to the Purchaser’s (a) right to reject any Mortgage Loan (or Qualified Substitute Mortgage Loan)
under the terms of this Agreement and to require another Mortgage Loan (or Qualified Substitute
Mortgage Loan) to be substituted therefor, and (b) obligation to pay the Purchase Price for the
Mortgage Loans. Ail rights and remedies of. the Purchaser under this Agreement are distinct
from, and cumulative with, any other rights or remedies under this Agreement or afforded by law
or equity and all such rights and remedies may be exercised concurrently, independently or
successively. |

SECTION 14. Notices.

All demands, notices and communications hereunder shall be in writing and shail
be deemed to have been duly given if mailed, by registered or certified mail, return receipt
requested, or, if by other means, when received by the other party at the address as follows:

(i) Morgan Stanley Mortgage Capital Inc.
1221 Avenue of the Americas, 27th Floor
New York, New York 10020
- Attention: Peter Woroniecki - Whole Loan Operations Manager
Fax: 212-507-3565
Email: peter.woroniecki@morganstanley.com

with copies to:

Jeff Williams

Morgan Stanley — Servicing Oversight
5002 T-Rex Ave

Suite 300

Boca Raton, Florida 33431

Fax: 561-443-6040

Email: jeff-williams@morganstanley.com

Scott Samlin

Morgan Stanley - RFPG

1585 Broadway, 10" Floor

New York, New York 10036

Fax: 212-507-6569

Email: scott.samlin@morganstanley.com

USActive 8685293.11 -20-



(ii) if to the Purchaser:

Anthony Villani

2780 Lake Vista Drive
Lewisville, Texas 75067
Attention: General Counsel
Fax: (469) 759-4714
Email: avillani@bear.com

or such other address as may hereafter be furnished to the other party by like notice. Any such
demand, notice or communication hereunder shall be deemed to have been received on the date
delivered to or received at the premises of the addressee (as evidenced, in the case of registered
or certified mail, by the date noted on the return receipt).

SECTION 15. Severability Clause.

Any part, provision representation or warranty of this Agreement which is
prohibited or unenforceable or is held to be void or unenforceable in any jurisdiction shall be
ineffective, as to such jurisdiction, to the extent of such prohibition or unenforceability without
invalidating the remaining provisions hereof, and any such prohibition or unenforceability in any
jurisdiction as to any Mortgage Loan shall not invalidate or render unenforceable such provision
in any other jurisdiction. To the extent permitted by applicable law, the parties hereto waive any
provision of law which prohibits or renders void or unenforceable any provision hereof. If the
invalidity of any part, provision, representation or warranty of this Agreement shall deprive any
party of the economic benefit intended to be conferred by this Agreement, the parties shall
negotiate, in good-faith, to develop a structure the economic effect of which is nearly as possible
the same as the economic effect of this Agreement without regard to such invalidity.

SECTION 16. Counterparts.

This Agreement may be executed simultaneously. in any number of counterparts.
Each counterpart shall be deemed to be an original, and all such counterparts shall constitute one
and the same instrument.

SECTION 17. Intention of the Parties.

It is the intention of the parties that the Purchaser is purchasing, and the Seller is
selling the Mortgage Loans and not a debt instrument of the Seller or another security.
Accordingly, the parties hereto each intend to treat the transaction for Federal income tax
purposes as a sale by the Seller, and a purchase by the Purchaser, of the Mortgage Loans.
Moreover, the arrangement under which the Mortgage Loans are held shall be consistent with
classification of such arrangement as a grantor trust in the event it is not found to represent direct
ownership of the Mortgage Loans. The Purchaser shall have the right to review the Mortgage
Loans and the related Mortgage Files to determine the characteristics of the Mortgage Loans
which shall affect the Federal income tax consequences of owning the Mortgage Loans and the

USActive 8685293.14 -21-


Seller shall cooperate with all reasonable requests made by the Purchaser in the course of such
review.

SECTION 18. Successors and Assigns: Assignment of Agreement.

This Agreement shall bind and inure to the benefit of and be enforceable by the
Seller and the Purchaser and the respective permitted successors and assigns of the Seller and the
successors and assigns of the Purchaser. This Agreement shall not be assigned, pledged or
hypothecated by the Seller to a third party not affiliated with the Seller without the prior written
consent of the Purchaser, which consent may be withheld by the Purchaser in its sole discretion.
This Agreement may be assigned, pledged or hypothecated by the Purchaser in whole or in part,
and with respect to one or more of the Mortgage Loans, without the consent of the Seller. The
Purchaser shall be limited to three (3) assignments or transfers with respect to the Mortgage
Loans and this Agreement as described in Section 12. In the event the Purchaser assigns this
Agreement, and the assignee assumes any of the Purchaser’s obligations hereunder, the Seller
acknowledges and agrees to look solely to such assignee, and not to the Purchaser, for
performance of the obligations so assumed and the Purchaser shall be relieved from any liability
to the Seller with respect thereto.

SECTION 19. Waivers.

No term or provision of.this Agreement may be waived or modified unless such
waiver or modification is in writing and signed by the party against whom such waiver or
modification is sought to be enforced.

SECTION 20. Exhibits.

The exhibits to this Agreement are hereby incorporated and made a part hereof
and are an integral part of this Agreement.

SECTION 21. General Interpretive Principles.

For purposes of this Agreement, except as otherwise expressly provided or unless
the context otherwise requires:

(a) the terms defined in this Agreement have the meanings assigned to them
in this Agreement and include the plural as well as the singular, and the use of any gender herein
shall be deemed to include the other gender;

(b) accounting terms not otherwise defined herein have the meanings assigned
to them in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;

(c) references herein to “Articles,” “Sections,” “Subsections,” “Paragraphs,”

and other subdivisions without reference to a document are to designated Articles, Sections,
Subsections, Paragraphs and other subdivisions of this Agreement;

USActive 8685293.11 «22-


(d) reference to a Subsection without further reference to a Section is a
reference to such Subsection as contained in the same Section in which the reference appears,
and this rule shall also apply to Paragraphs and other subdivisions;

(ec) . the words “herein,” “hereof,” “hereunder” and other words of similar
import refer to this Agreement as a whole and not to any particular provision; and

(f) the term “include” or “including” shall mean without limitation by reason
of enumeration.

SECTION 22. Reproduction of Documents.

This Agreement and all documents relating thereto, including, without limitation,
(a) consents, waivers and modifications which may hereafter be executed, (b) documents
received by any party at the closing, and (c) financial statements, certificates and other
information previously or hereafter furnished, may be reproduced by any photographic,
photostatic, microfilm, micro-card, miniature photographic or other similar process. The parties
agree that any such reproduction shall be admissible in evidence as the original itself in any
judicial or administrative proceeding, whether or not the original is in existence and whether or
not such reproduction was made by a party in the regular course of business, and that any
enlargement, facsimile or further reproduction of such reproduction shall likewise be admissible
in evidence.

SECTION 23. Further Agreements.

The Seller and the Purchaser each agree to execute and deliver to the other such
reasonable and appropriate additional documents, instruments or agreements as may be
necessary or appropriate to effectuate the-purposes of this Agreement.

SECTION 24. Recordation of Assignments of Mortgage.

To the extent permitted by applicable law, each of the Assignments of Mortgage
is subject to recordation in all appropriate public offices for real property records in all the
counties or their comparable jurisdictions in which any or all of the Mortgaged Properties are
situated, and in any other appropriate public recording office or elsewhere, such recordation to be
effected at the Seller’s expense in the event recordation is either necessary under applicable law
or requested by the Purchaser at its sole option.

SECTION 25. No Solicitation.

From and after the Closing Date, the Seller agrees that it will not take any action
or permit or cause any action to be taken by any of its agents or affiliates, or by any independent
contractors on the Seller’s behalf, to personally, by telephone or mail (via electronic means or
otherwise), solicit a Mortgagor under any Mortgage Loan for the purpose of refinancing a
Mortgage Loan, in whole or in part, without the prior written consent of the Purchaser.

USActive 8685293.11 -23-


Notwithstanding the foregoing, it is understood and agreed that the Seller, or any of its respective
affiliates:

(i) may advertise its availability for handling refinancings of mortgages in its
portfolio, including the promotion of terms it has available for such
refinancings, through the sending of letters or promotional material, so
long as it does not specifically target Mortgagors and so long as such
promotional material either is sent to the mortgagors for all of the
mortgages in the servicing portfolio of the Seller and any of its affiliates
(those it owns as well as those serviced for others); and

(ii) | may provide pay-off information and otherwise cooperate with individual
mortgagors who contact it about prepaying their mortgages by advising
them of refinancing terms and streamlined origination arrangements that
are available.

Promotions undertaken by the Seller or by any affiliate of the Seller which are
directed to the general public at large (including, without limitation, mass mailing based on
commercially acquired mailing lists, newspaper, radio and television advertisements), shall not
constitute solicitation under this Section 25.

SECTION 26. Waiver of Trial by Jury.

THE SELLER AND THE PURCHASER EACH KNOWINGLY,
VOLUNTARILY AND INTENTIONALLY WAIVES TO THE FULLEST EXTENT
PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW ANY RIGHT IT MAY HAVE TO A TRIAL BY JURY
OF ANY DISPUTE ARISING UNDER OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT OR THE
TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED HEREBY.

SECTION 27. Governing Law Jurisdiction; Consent to Service of Process. THIS
AGREEMENT SHALL BE DEEMED IN EFFECT WHEN A FULLY EXECUTED
COUNTERPART THEREOF IS RECEIVED BY THE PURCHASER IN THE STATE OF
NEW YORK AND SHALL BE DEEMED TO HAVE BEEN MADE IN THE STATE OF NEW
YORK. THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY THE INTERNAL LAWS OF THE
STATE OF NEW YORK, WITHOUT GIVING EFFECT TO ITS CHOICE OF LAW RULES
AND PRINCIPLES. EACH OF THE PURCHASER AND THE SELLER IRREVOCABLY
(I) SUBMITS TO THE EXCLUSIVE JURISDICTION OF THE COURTS OF THE STATE OF
NEW YORK AND THE COUNTY AND CITY OF NEW YORK AND THE FEDERAL
COURTS OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF
NEW YORK FOR THE PURPOSE OF ANY ACTION OR PROCEEDING RELATING TO
THIS AGREEMENT; (IJ) WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY LAW,
THE DEFENSE OF AN INCONVENIENT FORUM IN ANY ACTION OR PROCEEDING IN
ANY SUCH COURT; CID) AGREES THAT A FINAL JUDGMENT IN ANY ACTION OR
PROCEEDING IN ANY SUCH COURT SHALL BE CONCLUSIVE AND MAY BE
ENFORCED IN ANY OTHER JURISDICTION BY SUIT ON THE JUDGMENT OR IN ANY
OTHER MANNER PROVIDED BY LAW; AND (IV) CONSENTS TO SERVICE OF

USActive 8685293.11 -24-


PROCESS UPON IT BY MAILING A COPY THEREOF BY CERTIFIED MAIL
ADDRESSED TO IT AS PROVIDED FOR NOTICES HEREUNDER.

~~~ SECTION 28. Privacy Act Compliance,

Seller and Purchaser shall maintain policies, procedures, and safeguards designed
to protect the security and confidentiality of any non-public personal information relating to
Mortgagors. Seller and Purchaser agree to comply with the provisions of the Gramm-Leach-
Bliley Act of 1999, as the same may be amended from time to time, and all implementing rules
and regulations regarding consumer financial privacy, to the extent applicable to each of their
actions and responsibilities hereunder.

[Signature Page Follows]

USActive 8685293.11 -25-


IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Seller and the Purchaser have caused their names
to be signed hereto by their respective officers thereunto duly authorized as of the date first
above written.

MORGAN STANLEY MORTGAGE
CAPITAL INC.

‘Name: Sfever Shapire
Title: Vee Preavclesnt—

EMC MORTGAGE CORPORATION

By:

Name:
Title: —



IN WITNESS WHEREOEF, the Seller and the Purchaser have caused their names

to be signed hereto by their respective officers thereunto duly authorized as of the date-first—
above written. .

MORGAN STANLEY MORTGAGE
CAPITAL ENC.

By:
Name:
Title:

EMC MORTGAGE CORPORATION

id

By:

No Jacqueline Oliver

Senior Vice President



EXHIBIT A-1

MORTGAGE LOAN DOCUMENTS

With respect to each Mortgage Loan, the Mortgage Loan Documents shall include
each of the following items, which shall be available for inspection by the Purchaser and any
prospective Purchaser, and which shall be delivered to the Purchaser, or to such other Person as
the Purchaser shall designate in writing, pursuant to Section 6 of the Mortgage Loan Purchase
and Warranties Agreement to which this Exhibit is attached (the “Agreement”):

(a) the original Mortgage Note bearing all intervening endorsements,
endorsed “Pay to the order of , Without recourse” and signed in the name of the last
endorsee (the “Last Endorsee”) by an authorized officer. To the extent that there is no room on
the face of the Mortgage Notes for endorsements, the endorsement may be contained on an
allonge, if state law so allows and the Purchaser is so advised by the Seller that state law so
allows. If the Mortgage Loan was acquired by the Seller in a merger, the endorsement must be
by “[Last Endorsee], successor by merger to [name of predecessor]”. If the Mortgage Loan was
acquired or originated by the Last Endorsee while doing business under another name, the
endorsement must be by “[Last Endorsee], formerly known as [previous name]”;

(b) __ the original or an imaged copy of the original of any guarantee executed in
connection with the Mortgage Note;

(c) — with respect to Mortgage Loans that are not Co-op Loans, the original or
an imaged copy of the original Mortgage with evidence of recording thereon. With respect to
any Co-op Loan, the original or an imaged copy of the Security Agreement. If in connection
with any Mortgage Loan, the Seller cannot deliver or cause to be delivered the original or an
imaged copy of the original Mortgage with evidence of recording thereon on or prior to the
Closing Date because of a delay caused by the public recording office where such Mortgage has
been delivered for recordation or because such Mortgage has been lost or because such public
recording office retains the original recorded Mortgage, the Seller shall deliver or cause to be
delivered to the Purchaser or its designee, an imaged copy of such Mortgage, together with (i) in
the case of a delay caused by the public recording office, a certification by the Seller that such
Mortgage has been dispatched to the appropriate public recording office for recordation and that
an imaged copy of the original recorded Mortgage with evidence of recording will be promptly
delivered to the Purchaser upon receipt thereof by the Seller; or (ii) in the case of a Mortgage
where a public recording office retains the original recorded Mortgage or in the case where a
Mortgage is lost after recordation in a public recording office, an imaged copy of such Mortgage
certified by such public recording office to be a true and complete copy of the original recorded
Mortgage;

(d) the originals of all assumption, modification, consolidation or extension
agreements, if any, with evidence of recording thereon;

(e) with respect to Mortgage Loans that are not Co-op Loans, the original
Assignment of Mortgage for each Mortgage Loan, in form and substance acceptable for

USActive 8685293.11 A-1-1



recording (except with respect to MERS Designated Loan).. The Assignment of Mortgage must
be duly recorded only if recordation is either necessary under applicable law or commonly
_ required by private institutional mortgage investors in the area where the Mortgaged Property is
_located_or on direction of the Purchaser.as-provided in this Agreement. If the Assignment of
Mortgage is to be recorded, the Mortgage shall be assigned to the Purchaser. If the Assignment
of Mortgage is not to be recorded, the Assignment of Mortgage shall be delivered in blank. If
the Mortgage Loan was acquired by the Seller in a merger, the Assignment of Mortgage must be
made by “[Seiler], successor by merger to [name of predecessor]”. If the Mortgage Loan was
acquired or originated by the Seller while doing business under another name, the Assignment of
Mortgage must be by “[Seller], formerly known as [previous name]”;

(f) with respect to Mortgage Loans that are not Co-op Loans, the originals of
all intervening assignments of mortgage (if any) evidencing a complete chain of assignment from
the Seller to the Last Endorsee (or, in the case of a MERS Designated Loan, MERS) with
evidence of recording thereon, or if any such intervening assignment has not been returned from
the applicable recording office or has been lost or if such public recording office retains the
original recorded assignments of mortgage, the Seller shall deliver or cause to be delivered to the
Purchaser or its designee, an imaged copy of such intervening assignment, together with (i) in
the case of a delay caused by the public recording office, a certification by the Seller stating that
such intervening assignment of mortgage has been dispatched to the appropriate public recording
office for recordation and that an imaged copy of such original recorded intervening assignment
of mortgage with evidence of recording will be promptly delivered to the Purchaser or its
designee upon receipt thereof by the Seller; or (ii) in the case of an intervening assignment where
a public recording office retains the original recorded intervening assignment or in the case
where an intervening assignment is lost after recordation in a public recording office, an imaged
copy of such intervening assignment certified by such public recording office to be a true and
complete copy of the original recorded intervening assignment;

(g) with respect to Mortgage Loans that are not Co-op Loans, an imaged copy
of the original mortgagee policy of title insurance or, in the event such original title policy is
unavailable, a certified true imaged copy of the related policy binder or commitment for title
certified to be true and complete by the title insurance company;

(h) an imaged copy of the original of any security agreement, chattel .
mortgage or equivalent document executed in connection with the Mortgage;

(i) with respect to any Co-op Loan: imaged copies of the (i) the Co-op Lease
and the assignment of such Co-op Lease, with all intervening assignments showing a complete
chain of title and an assignment thereof by Seller; (ii) the stock certificate together with an
undated stock power relating to such stock certificate executed in blank; (iii) the recognition
agreement of the interests of the Mortgagee with respect to the Co-op Loan by the residential
cooperative housing corporation, the stock of which was pledged by the related Mortgagor to the
originator of such Co-op Loan; and (iv) the Co-op UCC Filing filed by the originator as secured
party and, if applicable, a filed UCC-3 assignment of the subject security interest showing a
complete chain of title, together with an executed UCC-3 assignment of such security interest by
the Seller in a form sufficient for filing; and

USActive 8685293.11 A-1-2


Qj) if any of the above documents has been executed by a person holding a .
power of attorney, an original or photocopy of such power certified by the Seller to be a true and
correct copy of the original.

USActive 8685293.11 A-1-3


EXHIBIT A-2

With respect to each Mortgage Loan, the Mortgage File shall include each of the
following items (to the extent in the possession of the applicable Seller) which shall be available
for inspection by the Purchaser:

(a) Copies of the Mortgage Loan Documents.

(b) — Residential loan application.

(c). | Mortgage Loan closing statement.

(d) Verification of employment and income, if required.

(ec) Verification of acceptable evidence of source and amount of
downpayment.

(f) Credit report on Mortgagor.
(g) Residential appraisal report.

(h) ~§ Photograph of the Mortgaged Property and photographs of comparable
properties.

(i) Survey of the Mortgaged Property, unless a survey is not required by the
title insurer.

(j) Copy of each instrument necessary to complete identification of any
exception set forth in the exception schedule in the title policy, i.e., map or plat, restrictions,
easements, home owner association declarations, etc.

(k) Copies of all required disclosure statements.

(i) If applicable, termite report, structural engineer’s report, water potability
and septic certification.

(m) — Sales contract, if applicable.

(n) — Copy of the owner’s title insurance policy or attorney’s opinion of title
and abstract of title, as applicable.

(0) | Evidence of electronic notation of the hazard insurance policy, and, if
required by law, evidence of the flood insurance policy.

USActive 8685293.11 A-2-]


EXHIBIT B

MORTGAGE LOAN SCHEDULE

Provided Upon Request

USActive 8685293.11 B-1



EXHIBIT C

Prior Purchase Agreements

Originator Purchase Date Prior Purchase Agreements
Accredited Home 05/17/04 Third Amended and Restated Mortgage Loan Purchase
Lenders, Inc. and Warranties Agreement, dated as of February 1,
(“Accredited”) 2004, as amended by Amendment No. 1, dated as of
April 2, 2004, between Accredited and Morgan
Stanley.
06/16/06 Seventh Amended and Restated Mortgage Loan
Purchase and Warranties Agreement, dated as of June
1, 2006, between Accredited and Morgan
Stanley.
08/30/06 | Eighth Amended and Restated Mortgage Loan
Purchase and Warranties Agreement, dated as of
11/30/06 August 1, 2006, between Accredited and
; Morgan Stanley.
12/21/06
12/28/06
04/20/07
04/27/07
Fist NLC Financial 08/29/06 Second Amended and Restated Mortgage Loan
Services, LLC Purchase and Warranties Agreement, dated as of March |
(“First NLC”) 09/29/06 1, 2006, between First NLC and Morgan Stanley.
11/21/06
12/22/06
01/30/07
04/25/07 Third Amended and Restated Mortgage Loan Purchase
and Warranties Agreement, dated as of April 1, 2007,
05/07/07

between First NLC and Morgan Stanley.

USActive 8685293.11

C-]



Fremont Investment 11/29/06 Second Amended and Restated Mortgage Loan
& Loan Purchase and Warranties Agreement, dated as of
(“Fremont”) November 1, 2006, between Fremont and Morgan
Stanley.
Wilmington 06/24/05 Amended and Restated Mortgage Loan Purchase and
Finance Inc. Warranties Agreement, dated as of June I, 2005,
(“Wilmington”) 07/27/05 among Wilmington, Morgan Stanley and AIG Federal
Savings Bank (through its Wilmington Finance
division).
09/28/06 Fourth Amended and Restated Mortgage Loan
Purchase and Warranties Agreement, dated as of July 1,
10/30/06 2006, between Wilmington and Morgan Stanley.
01/30/07
02/27/07
WMC Mortgage 11/28/06 Fifth Amended and Restated Mortgage Loan Purchase
Corp. (“WMC”) and Warranties Agreement, dated as of November 1,
12/28/06 2006, between WMC and Morgan Stanley.
01/30/07
02/15/07 Sixth Amended and Restated Mortgage Loan Purchase
and Warranties Agreement, dated as of February 1,
02/26/07 2007, between WMC and Morgan Stanley.

USActive 8685293.11



Servicing Agreements

Servicer

Servicing Agreement

Saxon Mortgage
Services, Inc. (“Saxon’’)

Servicing Rights Purchase and Servicing Agreement, dated as of
October 1, 2006 (with respect to Mortgage Loans serviced by Saxon,
the “Servicing Agreement”), between Morgan Stanley Mortgage
Capital Inc. (“Morgan Stanley’’) and Saxon.

Countrywide Home
Loans, Inc.
(“Countrywide’’)

Flow Servicing Rights Purchase and Servicing Agreement, dated as
of November 1, 2004 (with respect to Mortgage Loans serviced by
Countrywide, the “Servicing Agreement”), between Morgan Stanley
and Countrywide.

Wells Fargo Bank, N.A.
(“Wells Fargo”)

Flow Servicing Agreement, dated as of May 13, 2005 (with respect to
Mortgage Loans serviced by Wells Fargo, the “Servicing
Agreement”), as amended by Amendment No. 1, dated as of January
1, 2006 and as supplemented by the First Addendum, dated as of
March 1, 2006, between Morgan Stanley and Wells Fargo.

Accredited Home
Lenders, Inc.
(“Accredited”)

Interim Servicing Agreement, dated as of August 1, 2002, as
amended by Amendment No. 1, dated as of January 15, 2004 (with
respect to Mortgage Loans serviced by Accredited, the “Servicing
Agreement”), between Accredited and Morgan Stanley.

First NLC Financial
Services, LLC (“First
NLC”)

Amended and Restated Interim Servicing Agreement, dated as of
September 29, 2005 ( with respect to Mortgage Loans serviced by
First NLC, the “Servicing Agreement”), between Morgan Stanley and

USActive 8685293.11

Fist NLC.



EXHIBIT D

FORM OF ASSIGNMENT AND ASSUMPTION AGREEMENT

ASSIGNMENT AND ASSUMPTION AGREEMENT

THIS ASSIGNMENT AND ASSUMPTION AGREEMENT, dated May 31, 2007
(“Agreement”), between Morgan Stanley Mortgage Capital Inc. (“Assignor”) and EMC
Mortgage Corporation (“Assignee”):

For and in consideration of the sum of TEN DOLLARS ($10.00) and other
valuable consideration the receipt and sufficiency of which hereby are acknowledged, and of the
mutual covenants herein contained, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

Assignment and Conveyance

1. The Assignor hereby conveys, sells, grants, transfers and assigns to the
Assignee all of the right, title and interest of the Assignor in, to and under (a) those certain
Mortgage Loans listed on the schedule (the “Mortgage Loan Schedule”) attached hereto as
Exhibit A (the “Mortgage Loans’), (b) except as described below, those certain mortgage loan
purchase and warranties agreements attached as Exhibit B hereto (the “Purchase Agreements”),
solely insofar as the Purchase Agreements relate to the Mortgage Loans and (c) those certain
servicing agreements attached as Exhibit C hereto (the “Servicing Agreements’), solely insofar
as the Servicing Agreements relate to the Mortgage Loans.

The Assignor specifically reserves and does not assign to the Assignee hereunder
any and all right, title and interest in, to and under and any obligations of the Assignor with
respect to any mortgage loans subject to the Purchase Agreements and the Servicing Agreements
which are not the Mortgage Loans set forth on the Mortgage Loan Schedule and are not the
subject of this Agreement. In addition, the Assignor shall use commercially reasonable efforts to
enforce, on behalf of the Assignee, compliance by the related Originators and Servicers with the
Regulation AB obligations under the Purchase Agreements and Servicing Agreements.

Representations and Warranties of the Assignor

2. The Assignor warrants and represents to.the Assignee as of the date hereof
that:

(a) Attached hereto as Exhibit B are true and accurate copies of the Purchase
Agreements, and the Purchase Agreements are in full force and effect as of the date hereof
and their provisions have not been waived, amended or modified in any respect, nor has
any notice of termination been given thereunder;

(b) — Attached hereto as Exhibit _C are true and accurate copies of the Servicing
Agreements, and the Servicing Agreements are in full force and effect as of the date hereof
and their provisions have not been waived, amended or modified in any respect, nor has
any notice of termination been given thereunder;

USActive 8685293.11 D-1


(c) — Assignor is the lawful owner of the Mortgage Loans, with full right to transfer the
Mortgage Loans and any and all of its interests, rights and obligations under the Purchase
Agreements and the Servicing Agreements as they relate to the Mortgage Loans, free and

clear of any and all liens, claims and encumbrances; and upon the transfer of the Mortgage ~
Loans to Assignee as contemplated herein, Assignee shall have title to each and every
Mortgage Loan, as well as any and all of Assignor's interests, rights and obligations under
the Purchase Agreements and the Servicing Agreements as they relate to the Mortgage
Loans, free and clear of any and all liens, claims and encumbrances;

(d) — Assignor has not received notice, of, and has no knowledge of, any offsets,
counterclaims or other defenses available to the Originators or the Servicers with respect to
the Purchase Agreements and the Servicing Agreements, as applicable, or their continuing
obligations in respect of the Mortgage Loans;

(e) — Assignor has not received notice of, and has no knowledge of, any waivers under,
or any modification of, any Mortgage Loan, except for such waivers and modifications as
may be included in the Mortgage File;

(H Assignor has all requisite power and authority to enter into this Agreement and
carry out the transactions contemplated hereby, such actions do not conflict with any of
Assignor's other obligations and such actions have been duly authorized by Assignor;

(g) . The Assignor is a corporation, validly existing, and in good standing under the
laws of its jurisdiction of incorporation or formation and has all licenses necessary to carry
on its business as now being conducted and is licensed, qualified and in good standing in
the states where the Mortgaged Property is located if the laws of such state require
licensing or qualification in order to conduct business of the type conducted by the
Assignor.. The Assignor has corporate power and authority to execute and deliver this
Agreement and to perform its obligations hereunder; the execution, delivery and
performance of this Agreement by the Assignor and the consummation of the transactions
contemplated hereby have been duly and validly authorized; this Agreement has been duly
executed and delivered and constitutes the valid, legal, binding and enforceable obligation
of the Assignor, except as enforceability may be limited by (i) bankruptcy, insolvency,
liquidation, receivership, moratorium, reorganization or other similar laws affecting the
enforcement of the rights of creditors and (ii) general principles of equity, whether
enforcement is sought in a proceeding in equity or at law. All requisite corporate action
has been taken by the Assignor to make this Agreement valid and binding upon the
Assignor in accordance with its terms;

(h) No consent, approval, authorization or order is required for the transactions
contemplated by this Agreement from any court, governmental agency or body, or federal
or state regulatory authority having jurisdiction over the Assignor is required or, if
required, such consent, approval, authorization or order has been or will, prior to the
Closing Date, be obtained;

(i) There is no action, suit, proceeding or investigation pending or, to the best of
Assignor’s knowledge, threatened against the Assignor, before any court, administrative

USActive 8685293.11 D-2



agency or other tribunal, asserting the invalidity of this Agreement, seeking to prevent the
consummation of any of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, or which would
be likely to impair materially the ability of the Assignor to perform under the terms of this
Agreement; and

Gj) No consent, approval or authorization of any other party, including an Originator
or Servicer, is required to be obtained or made by Assignor to assign its rights in the
Agreements. ; a

Miscellaneous

3. This Agreement shall be construed in accordance with the laws of the
State of New York, without regard to conflicts of law principles, and the obligations, rights and
remedies of the parties hereunder shall be determined in accordance with such laws.

A, No term or provision of this Agreement may be waived or modified unless
such waiver or modification is in writing and signed by the party against whom such waiver or
modification is sought to be enforced.

5. ‘This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of the successors and assigns of
the parties hereto. Any entity into which Assignor or Assignee may be merged or consolidated
shall, without the requirement for any further writing, be deemed Assignor or Assignee,
respectively, hereunder.

6. Each of this Agreement, the Purchase Agreements and the Servicing
Agreements shall survive the conveyance of the Mortgage Loans and the assignment of the
Purchase Agreements and the Servicing Agreements (to the extent assigned hereunder) by
Assignor to Assignee.

7. This Agreement may be executed simultaneously in any number of
counterparts. Each counterpart shall be deemed to be an original and all such counterparts shall
constitute one and the same instrument.

8. In the event that any provision of this Agreement conflicts with any
provision of the Purchase Agreements or the Servicing Agreements with respect to the Mortgage
Loans, the terms of this Agreement shall control.

9. Capitalized terms used in this Agreement (including the exhibits hereto)
but not defined in this Agreement shall have the meanings given to such terms in the Mortgage
Loan Purchase and Warranties Agreement, dated as of May 1, 2007, between the Assignor and
the Assignee.

[SIGNATURE PAGE FOLLOWS]

USActive 8685293.11 D-3


IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have caused this Agreement to be executed

by their duly authorized officers as of the date first above written.

USActive 8685293.11

EMC MORTGAGE CORPORATION
(Assignee)

Name:
Its:

MORGAN STANLEY MORTGAGE
CAPITAL INC.
(Assignor)

Name:

Its:



EXHIBIT A

Mortgage Loan Schedule

USActive 8685293.11 D-A-1



EXHIBIT B

Purchase Agreements

USActive 8685293.11 D-B-1


EXHIBIT C

Servicing Agreements

USActive 8685293.11 D-C-1



EXHIBIT E
NON-TRANSFERRED LOANS
Originator Amount Purchase Date Servicing Transfer Date
Accredited $100,003,042 04/20/07 06/01/07
Accredited $200,081,824 04/27/07 07/02/07
First NLC $649,604,666 04/25/07 06/01/07
First NLC $25,601,122 05/07/07 07/02/07

USActive 8685293.11



EXHIBIT F

MORTGAGE LOAN REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES

Part A: Mortgage Loan Representations and Warranties with respect to Group 1 Mortgage
Loans:

(A) Payments Current. Except as set forth on the Mortgage Loan Schedule, (i)
all payments required to be made up to the Closing Date for the Mortgage Loan under the terms
of the Mortgage Note, other than payments not yet 30 days Delinquent, have been made and
credited, (ii) no payment required under the Mortgage Loan has been 30 days or more
Delinquent at any time since the origination of the Mortgage Loan, and (iii) the first Monthly
Payment was made with respect to the Mortgage Loan on its related Due Date or within the
grace period, all in accordance with the terms of the related Mortgage Note;

(B) No Defenses. The Mortgage Loan is not subject to any right of rescission,
set-off, counterclaim or defense, including without limitation the defense of usury, nor will the
operation of any of the terms of the Mortgage Note or the Mortgage, or the exercise of any right
thereunder, render either the Mortgage Note or the Mortgage unenforceable, in whole or in part
and no such right of rescission, set-off, counterclaim or defense has been asserted with respect
thereto, and no Mortgagor was a debtor in any state or Federal bankruptcy or insolvency
proceeding at the time the Mortgage Loan was originated; .

(C) ~ Hazard Insurance. Pursuant to the terms of the Mortgage, all buildings or
other improvements upon the Mortgaged Property are insured by a generally acceptable insurer
against loss by fire, hazards of extended coverage and such other hazards as are customarily
insured against in the jurisdiction where the related Mortgaged Property is located and
acceptable to the Rating Agencies;

(D) Compliance with Applicable Laws. Any and all requirements of any
federal, state or local law including, without limitation, usury, truth-in-lending, real estate
settlement procedures, consumer credit protection, equal credit opportunity, disclosure and all
predatory, abusive and fair lending laws applicable to the Mortgage Loan, including, without
limitation, any provisions relating to Prepayment Penalties, have been complied with, and the
consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby will not involve the violation of any such
laws or regulations;

(E) NValid First or Second Lien. The Mortgage is a valid, subsisting,
enforceable and perfected, first lien (with respect to a First Lien Loan) or second lien (with
respect to a Second Lien Loan) on the Mortgaged Property, including all buildings and
improvements on the Mortgaged Property and all. installations and mechanical, electrical,
plumbing, heating and air conditioning systems located in or annexed to such buildings, and all
additions, alterations and replacements made at any time with respect to the foregoing. The lien
of the Mortgage is subject only to:

USActive 8685293.11 F-1


(1) with respect to a Second Lien Loan only, the lien of the first mortgage on
the Mortgaged Property;

payable;

(3) covenants, conditions and restrictions, rights of way, easements and other
matters of the public record as of the date of recording acceptable to prudent mortgage
lending institutions generally and specifically referred to in the lender’s title insurance
policy delivered to the originator of the Mortgage Loan and (a) specifically referred to or
otherwise considered in the appraisal made for the originator of the Mortgage Loan or
(b) which do not adversely affect the Appraised Value of the Mortgaged Property set
forth in such appraisal; and

(4) other matters to which like properties are commonly subject which do not
materially interfere with the benefits of the security intended to be provided by the
Mortgage or the use, enjoyment, value or marketability of the related Mortgaged
Property.

Any. security agreement, chattel mortgage or equivalent document related to and
delivered in connection with the Mortgage Loan establishes and creates a valid, subsisting,
enforceable and perfected first lien (with respect to a First Lien Loan) or second lien (with
respect to a Second Lien Loan) and first priority (with respect to a First Lien Loan) or second
priority (with respect to a Second Lien Loan) security interest on the property described therein
and the Seller has full right to sell and assign the same to the Purchaser.

(F) Validity of Mortgage Documents. The Mortgage Note and the Mortgage
and any other agreement executed and delivered by a Mortgagor in connection with a Mortgage
~ Loan are genuine, and each is the legal valid and binding obligation of the maker thereof
enforceable in accordance with its terms (including, without limitation, any provisions therein
relating to Prepayment Penalties). All parties to the Mortgage Note, the Mortgage and any other
such related agreement had legal capacity to enter into the Mortgage Loan and to execute and
deliver the Mortgage Note, the Mortgage and any such agreement, and the Mortgage Note, the
Mortgage and any other such related agreement have been duly and properly executed by other
such related parties. No fraud, error, omission, misrepresentation, negligence or similar
occurrence with respect to a Mortgage Loan has taken place on the part of the Seller, or, to the
knowledge of the Seller, any other person, including without limitation, the Mortgagor, any
appraiser, any builder or developer, or any other party involved in the origination of the
Mortgage Loan;

(G) — Title Insurance. With respect to a Mortgage Loan which is not a Co-op
Loan, the Mortgage Loan is covered by an ALTA lender’s title insurance policy, or with respect
to any Mortgage Loan for which the related Mortgaged Property is located in California a CLTA
lender’s title insurance policy, or other generally acceptable form of policy or insurance
acceptable to Fannie Mae. or Freddie Mac and each such title insurance policy is issued by a
generally accepted title insurer and qualified to do business in the jurisdiction where the
Mortgaged Property is located, insuring the Seller, its successors and assigns, as to the first (with

USActive 8685293.11 F-2



respect to a First Lien Loan) or second (with respect to a Second Lien Loan) priority lien of the"
Mortgage in the original principal amount of the Mortgage Loan (or to the extent a Mortgage
Note provides for negative amortization, the maximum amount of negative amortization in
accordance with the Mortgage), subject only to the exceptions contained in clauses (1), (2) and
(3) of paragraph (e) of this Exhibit F, and in the case of Adjustable Rate Mortgage Loans, against
any loss by reason of the invalidity or unenforceability of the lien resulting from the provisions
of the Mortgage providing for adjustment to the Mortgage Interest Rate and Monthly Payment;

(HK) No Defaults. Except as set forth in paragraph (b) above, there is no
default, breach, violation or event which would permit acceleration existing under the Mortgage
or the Mortgage Note and no event which, with the passage of time or with notice and the
expiration of any grace or cure period, would constitute a default, breach, violation or event
which would permit acceleration, and neither the Seller nor any of its Affiliates nor any of their
respective predecessors, have waived any default, breach, violation or event which would permit
acceleration;

(1) Full Disbursement of Proceeds. The Mortgage Loan has been closed and
the proceeds of the Mortgage Loan have been fully disbursed and there is no requirement for
future advances thereunder, and any and all requirements as to completion of any on-site or
off-site improvement and as to disbursements of any escrow funds therefor have been complied.
with. All costs, fees and expenses incurred in making or closing the Mortgage Loan and the
recording of the Mortgage were paid, and the Mortgagor is not entitled to any refund of any
amounts paid or due under the Mortgage Note or Mortgage;

(J) No Mechanics’ Liens. There are no mechanics’ or similar liens or claims
which have been filed for work, labor or material (and no rights are outstanding that under the
law could give rise to such liens) affecting the related Mortgaged Property which are or may be
liens prior to, or equal or coordinate with, the lien of the related Mortgage;

(K) Customary Provisions. The Mortgage contains customary and enforceable
provisions such as to render the rights and remedies of the holder thereof adequate for the
realization against ‘the Mortgaged Property of the benefits of the security provided thereby,
including, (i) in the case of a Mortgage designated as a deed of trust, by trustee’s sale, and
(ii) otherwise by judicial foreclosure. Upon default by a Mortgagor on a mortgage loan and
foreclosure on, or trustee’s sale of, the Mortgaged Property pursuant to the proper procedures,
the holder of the Mortgage Loan will be able to deliver good and merchantable title to the
Mortgaged Property. There is no homestead or other exemption available to a Mortgagor which
would interfere with the right to sell the mortgaged property at a trustee’s sale or the right to
foreclose the Mortgage, subject to applicable federal and state laws and judicial precedent with
respect to bankruptcy and right of redemption or similar law;

(L)  Due-On-Sale. With respect to each Fixed Rate Mortgage Loan, the
Mortgage contains an enforceable provision for the acceleration of the payment of the unpaid
principal balance of the Mortgage Loan in the event that the Mortgaged Property is sold or
transferred without the prior written consent of the mortgagee thereunder, and to the best of the
Seller’s knowledge, such provision is enforceable;

USActive 8685293.11 F-3 ©


(M) Mortgaged Property Undamaged;: No Condemnation Proceedings. ‘There
is no proceeding pending or, to the Seller’s knowledge, threatened for the total or partial

condemnation of the Mortgaged Property. The Mortgaged Property is undamaged by waste, fire,

adversely the value of the Mortgaged Property as security for the Mortgage Loan or the use for
which the premises were intended and each Mortgaged Property is in good repair. There have
not been any condemnation proceedings with respect to the Mortgaged Property;

(N) Origination. The Mortgagor was not encouraged or required to select a
Mortgage Loan product offered by the Originator which is a higher cost product designed for
less creditworthy mortgagors, unless at the time of the Mortgage Loan’s origination, such
Mortgagor did not qualify taking into such facts as, without limitation, the Mortgage Loan’s
requirements and the Mortgagor’s credit history, income, assets and liabilities and debt to
income ratios for a lower cost credit product then offered by the Originator or any Affiliate of the
Originator. If, at the time of loan application, the Mortgagor may have qualified for a lower cost
credit product then offered by any mortgage lending Affiliate of the Originator, the Originator
referred the related Mortgagor’s application to such Affiliate for underwriting consideration. For
a Mortgagor who seeks financing through a Mortgage Loan originator’s higher-priced subprime
lending channel, the Mortgagor was directed towards or offered the Mortgage Loan originator’s
standard mortgage line if the Mortgagor was able to qualify for one of the standard products;

(O) Predatory Lending Regulations. No Mortgage Loan is a High Cost Loan
or Covered Loan, as applicable, and no Mortgage Loan originated on or after October 1, 2002
through March 6, 2003 is governed by the Georgia Fair Lending Act. No Mortgage Loan is
covered by the Home Ownership and Equity Protection Act of 1994 and no Mortgage Loan is in
violation of any comparable state or local law;

(P) No Outstanding Charges. There are no defaults in complying with the
terms of the Mortgage, and all taxes, governmental assessments, insurance premiums, water,
sewer and municipal charges, leasehold payments or ground rents which previously became due
and owing have been paid, or an escrow of funds has been established in an amount sufficient to
pay for every such item which remains unpaid and which has been assessed but is not yet due
and payable;

(Q) Original Terms Unmodified. The terms of the Mortgage Note and
Mortgage have not been impaired, waived, altered or modified in any respect, from the date of
origination except by a written instrument which has been recorded, if necessary to protect the
interests of the Purchaser, and which has been delivered to the Trustee or to such other Person as
the Purchaser shall designate in writing, and the terms of which are reflected in the Mortgage
Loan Schedule. The substance of any such waiver, alteration or modification has been approved
by the issuer of the title insurer, if any, to the extent required, and its terms are reflected on the
Mortgage Loan Schedule, if applicable;

(R) Qualified Mortgage. The Mortgage Loan would be a “qualified
mortgage,” within the meaning of Section 860G(a)(3) of the Code, if transferred to a REMIC on
its startup day in exchange for the regular or residual interests in the REMIC;

USActive 8685293.11 F-4


(S) Ownership. The Seller is the sole owner of record and holder of the
Mortgage Loan and the indebtedness evidenced by each Mortgage Note. The Mortgage Loan is
not assigned or pledged, and the Seller has good, indefeasible and marketable title thereto, and
has full right to transfer and sell the Mortgage Loan to the Purchaser free and clear of any
encumbrance, equity, participation interest, lien, pledge, charge, claim or security interest, and
has full right and authority subject to no interest or participation of, or agreement with, any other
party, to sell and assign each Mortgage Loan and following the sale of each Mortgage Loan, the
Purchaser will own such Mortgage Loan free and clear of any encumbrance, equity, participation
interest, lien, pledge, charge, claim or security interest;

(T) Location of Improvements; No Encroachments. All improvements which
were considered in determining the appraised value of the Mortgaged Property lay wholly within
the boundaries and building restriction lines of the Mortgaged Property, and no improvements on
adjoining properties encroach upon the Mortgaged Property. No improvement located on or
being part of the Mortgaged Property is in violation of any applicable zoning law or regulation;

; (U) Appraisal. The Mortgage File contains an appraisal of the related
Mortgaged Property signed prior to the approval of the Mortgage Loan application by a
Qualified Appraiser, duly appointed by the Seller, who had no interest, direct or indirect in the
Mortgaged Property or in any loan made on the security thereof, and whose compensation is not
affected by the approval or disapproval of the Mortgage Loan, and the appraisal and appraiser
both satisfy the requirements of Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac and Title XI of the Financial
Institutions Reform, Recovery, and Enforcement Act of 1989 and the regulations promulgated
thereunder, all as in effect on the date the Mortgage Loan was originated;

(V) LIV. No Mortgage Loan has an LTV greater than 100%;

(W) Prepayment Penalty. Each Mortgage Loan that is subject to a prepayment
penalty as provided in the related Mortgage Note is identified on the related Mortgage Loan
Schedule. With respect to each Mortgage Loan that has a prepayment penalty feature, each such
prepayment penalty is enforceable and will be enforced by the Seller for the benefit of the
Purchaser, and each prepayment penalty is permitted pursuant to federal, state and local law.
Each such prepayment penalty is in an amount not more than the maximum amount permitted
under applicable law and no such prepayment penalty may be imposed for a term in excess of
five (5) years with respect to Mortgage Loans originated prior to October 1, 2002. With respect
to Mortgage Loans originated on or after October 1, 2002, the duration of the prepayment
penalty period shall not exceed three (3) years from the date of the Mortgage Note unless the
Mortgage Loan was modified to reduce the prepayment penalty period to no more than three (3)
years from the date of the related Mortgage Note and the Mortgagor was notified in writing of
such reduction in prepayment penalty period;

(X) — Purchase of Insurance. No Mortgagor was required to purchase any single
premium credit insurance policy (e.g. life, mortgage, disability, property, accident
unemployment or health insurance product) or debt cancellation agreement as a condition of
obtaining the extension of credit. No Mortgagor obtained a prepaid single-premium credit
insurance policy (e.g., life, mortgage, disability, property, accident, unemployment or health
insurance) in connection with the origination of the Mortgage Loan. No proceeds from any

USActive 8685293.11 F-5


Mortgage Loan were used to purchase single premium credit insurance policies or debt
cancellation agreements as part of the origination of, or as a condition to closing, such Mortgage
Loan; and

(Y) No Arbitration. No Mortgage Loan originated on or after July 1, 2004
requires the related Mortgagor to submit to arbitration to resolve any dispute arising out of or
relating in any way to the Mortgage Loan transaction.

USActive 8685293.11 F-6


Part B: Mortgage Loan Representations and Warranties with respect each Mortgage
Loan:

(A) Mortgage Loans as Described. The information set forth in the Mortgage Loan
Schedule relating to the Mortgage Loans is complete, true and correct as of the Cut-off Date;

(B) Ownership. The Seller is the sole owner of record and hoider of the Mortgage
Loan and the indebtedness evidenced by each Mortgage Note. The Mortgage Loan is not
assigned or pledged, and the Seller has good, indefeasible and marketable title thereto, and has
full right to transfer and sell the Mortgage Loan to the Purchaser free and clear of any
encumbrance, equity, participation interest, lien, pledge, charge, claim or security interest, and
has full right and authority subject to no interest or participation of, or agreement with, any other
party, to sell and assign each Mortgage Loan and following the sale of each Mortgage Loan, the
Purchaser will own such Mortgage Loan free and clear of any encumbrance, equity, participation
interest, lien, pledge, charge, claim or security interest;

(C) — Compliance with Applicable Laws. Any and all requirements of any federal, state
or local law including, without limitation, usury, truth-in-lending, real estate settlement
procedures, consumer credit protection, equal credit opportunity, disclosure and all predatory,
abusive and fair lending laws applicable to the Mortgage Loan, including, without limitation, any
provisions relating to Prepayment Penalties, have been complied with, and the consummation of
the transactions contemplated hereby will not involve the violation of any such laws or
regulations; and

(D) Securitization Representation. The characteristics of each Mortgage Loan
conform to the securitization requirements and loan level representations and warranties that are
consistent with those applicable to a securitization transaction (i) being rated by at least two
nationally recognized (or equivalent) statistical rating agencies, (ii) having at least one class of
securities rated the equivalent of “AAA” by each such rating agency, (iii) being backed by
similar types of mortgage loans as such Mortgage Loans, (iv) being master serviced by a master
servicer satisfactory to the Purchaser and the Seller and (v) as to which disclosures required by
Regulation AB with respect to the related Originator and the related Servicer are furnished.

USActive 8685293.11 E-7


EXHIBIT 4

[Reserved]

E-3-]

[TPW: NYLEGAL:688702.10] 17297-00533 11/26/2007 07:47 PM


EXHIBIT 5

[Reserved]

E-4-]

[TPW: NYLEGAL:688702,10] 17297-00533 11/26/2007 07:47 PM



EXHIBIT 6
SCHEDULE OF LOST NOTES

_ Available Upon Request

E-5-1

[TPW: NYLEGAL:688702,10] 17297-00533 11/26/2007 07:47 PM



EXHIBIT 7

[Reserved]

{[TPW: NYLEGAL:688702.10] 17297-00533 11/26/2007 07:47 PM



EXHIBIT 8

Accredited Assignment, Assumption and Recognition Agreement

(Please See Tab #13) —

{TPW: NYLEGAL:688702.10] 17297-00533 03/14/2008 03:08 PM


SCHEDULE A

REQUIRED RATINGS FOR EACH CLASS OF CERTIFICATES

Class S&P Moody’s
A-1 AAA Aaa
A-2 AAA Aaa
A-3 - AAA Aaa
A-4 AAA Aaa
M-1 AAt+ Aal
M-2 AA Aa2
M-3 AA- Aa3
M-4 A+ Al
M-5 A A2
M-6 A- A3
B-1 BBB+ Baal
B-2 BBB Baa2

— B-3 Baa3

None of the above ratings has been lowered, qualified or withdrawn since the dates of issuance

of such ratings by the Rating Agencies.

BBB-

Private Certificates
Class S&P Moody’s

B-4 BB+ Bal
CE Not Rated Not Rated

P Not Rated Not Rated
R-1 Not Rated Not Rated
R-2 Not Rated Not Rated
R-3 | Not Rated Not Rated
RX Not Rated Not Rated

A-1

[TPW: NYLEGAL:688702.10] 17297-00533 11/26/2007 07:47 PM

