




              Proposal to Provide
              Investment Banking Services




               Presbyterian Healthcare Services

              a PRESBYTERIAN




              November 24, 2003

I          Goldman, Sachs & Co. I 85 Broad Street 1 New York, New York ·1 0004
           Tel 212-902-1 000

I.
I         Susan Benz
          Managing Director
          Municipal Finance Department

1:
          ~ovember24,2003



          Marianne Kennedy
          Presbyterian Healthcare Services
          2501 Buena Vista, S.E., Suite 2300
          Albuquerque, ~ew Mexico
          Dear Ms. Kennedy:

ll
<
      j   Goldman, Sachs & Co. is extremely pleased to submit our response to your request for proposal
          for underwriting services. We place tremendous value in our investment banking relationships
          and view this opportunity as a significant step in providing broad based, high quality
          investment banking services to Presbyterian Healthcare Services.
          Presbyterian's recent revised outlook by Moody's, demonstrative of the significant progress the
          system has made towards an upgrade to the Aa category, comes at a time when the system
IJ        faces growing regional competitive pressures. This, combined with Presbyterian's projected
          capital needs, creates a complex and challenging context for the development of a capital plan.
  '       This is exactly the sort of challenge we enjoy and excel at. We feel the skills and capacities we
I    ~
     .1
          would bring to Presbyterian are well suited to this situation. These strengths include: leadership
          in healthcare finance, extensive experience working with integrated healthcare systems, a
          teamwork approach, unique idea generation, unparalleled auction rate performance, tailored
ll  _j    derivative products, and a sincere desire to work with Presbyterian.
          We hope that this proposal helps to demonstrate the commitment and depth of services that we
          are prepared to provide Presbyterian. We believe our unique combination of experience,
          resources, and enthusiasm is a platform that would make for a productive and successful long-
          term relationship. On behalf of the Goldman Sachs team, we very much hope to have the
          opportunity to serve Presbyterian and help the organization achieve its financial and strategic
          goals. Should you have any questions or desire additional information, please do not hesitate to
          contact our team leader Sue Benz at (212) 902-6437.


          S~yn:~
          ~-lfsJ-co
          Goldman, Sachs & Co.

I                                                         - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - ------------------------------


     1.
I   Describe your firm's capabilities and experience in the following key           •   Re-marketin~; and auction agent services
    sen·ices and the value that you create for your health care clients.            •   Counter-party on derivative transactions
                                                                                    •   Assistance 11·ith merger, acquisition, and divestihire h·ansactions

I         Developing long-term capital formation strategies
          Investment banking/underwriting sen·ices                                  •   Liquidity and credit support

    Goldman Sachs is a leading global investment banking and securities finn, pro,·iding a full range of investing,

I   advisory, and financing services worldwide to a substantial and diversified client base, which includes governments,
    corporations, financial institutions and indi\·iduals. The finn was founded in 1869 as a commercial paper dealer, a
    product the firm created. After more than a century as a private parhwrship, the firm became a public company in
    1999. The firm is headquartered in New York and maintains offices in other financial centers around the world.
I   Goldman Sachs currently has 44 offices in 23 countries. The finn's Not-for-Profit Healthcare Group consists of 19 full-
    time professionals who are supported by members of specialty finance groups such as credit, derivatives, short-term,
    quantitative and tax services.
    Goldman Sachs prides itself on providing complete, broad based, intensive coverage for our clients, regardless of
    where they are in their capital cycle. While we have recently added a number of new clients, many of our
    relationships span decades. We maintain these relationships by providing a complete and varied range of services, by
I   being a product innovator and market leader, and by focusing on what is best for the client rather than what produces
    the next trade.
    The Firm's Business Principles govern our approach to all of our business activities. As our Business Principles
I   indicate, "Our clients' interests always come first Our experience shows that if we serve our clients welt our own
    success will follow." Accordingly, finance teams assigned to each particular client are charged with accessing and
    directing the Firm's vast resources in the structuring and execution of each transaction. This philosophy of investment
I   banking is the hallmark of our success in providing superior service to each of our nonprofit healthcare clients. We
    have included the Firm's Business Principles as Appendix A
    We would be proud to add Presbyterian Health Services to our list of clients.
I                                             TO
    Goldman Sachs' focus within the healthcare industry has remained intensely oriented towards healthcare systems,

I   many of which are complex integrated healthcare organizations. We have found that large diversified systems and
    the challenges they face, are a good match to Goldman Sachs' integrated approach and strength in the area of idea
    generation. Services provided to our integrated delivery system clients on an ongoing basis are similar to those
    sought by Presbyterian and have included: strategic capital planning, credit strategy, rating agency and investor
I   relations, capital raising, capital markets/ derivatives implementation, and strategic advisory services.
    Below is an illustrative list of certain of our integrated delivery system clients.

I
I   Adventist Health System (FL)                                                                          Relationship since 1988. Investment Banking,
                                                                                                          Advisory, Escrow Re.structuring, Accounts
                                                                                                          Receivable Financing, and Capital Securities.
    Baptist Healthcare System (KY)                   5 Hospitals in KY                                    Relationship since 1981. Investment Banking,

I   Baylor Health Care System (TX)
                                                     Health Plan- Blue Cross Family Plan
                                                     8 Hospitals
                                                     Approximately 750 Physicians
                                                                                                          Capital Raising and Derivatives.
                                                                                                          Relationship since 1988. Investment Banking,
                                                                                                          Capital Raising, Strategic Advisory and
                                                                                                          Derivatives.
    Catholic Health Services (NY)                    5 Hospitals                                          Relationship since 1995. Investment Banking and
                                                                                                          Capital Raising.
    MedStar (MD)                                     7 Hospitals in 2 states                              Relationship since 1998. Investment Banking,
                                                     70 Physicians                                        Acquisition Financing, Strategic and Financial
                                                                                                          Advisory and Capital Raising.




                                                                                                                                                                        1

I                                                                                                                                                   """   ~


I   ;t----------'.:__X-----,-------------,----------'1
     New York Presbyterian (NY)                       11 Hospitals in New York City
                                                      Real Estate Subsidiary
                                                                                                     Relationship with New York Hospital since 1978 /
                                                                                                     and with New York Presbyterian since 1997.           I
I
                                             I "c     2 Affiliated Medical Schools                   Investment Banking. Capital Raising, Derivatives.
                                                                                                     FHfl. Fmanc1ng. Real Estate F1nancmg.                l
    :ifV1ount Sinai NYU Health (NY)          !   :1   4 Hospitals in New York City                   Relationship with fv1 ount Sinai since 1983 and
                                                 "'   Real Estate Subsidiary                         with MSNYU since 1999. Merger Investment             :/
                                                                                                     Banking, Advisory, Merger Financing and FHA          ,

I
                                                 '1   2 Affiliated Schools of Medicine
                                                                                                     Financing.
     PeaceHealth (OR)                            :r 6 Hospitals                                      Relationship since 2001. Investment Banking,
                                                 w 223 Physicians                                    Capital Raising and Derivatives.


I    Provena Health (IL)                     18
                                             [.~
                                             I,~
                                                      7 Hospitals
                                                      70 Physicians
                                                      HMO- Personal Care, 40,000 Members
                                                                                                     Relationship since 1989. Investment Banking,
                                                                                                     Capital Raising, Strategic Advisory and
                                                                                                     Derivatives.


I   Providence Health System (WA)
                                             · ·1
                                             :.;~
                                                      20 Hospitals
                                                      136 Physicians
                                                      HMO- Providence Health Plan Oregon,
                                                                                                     Relationship since 2000. Investment Banking and
                                                                                                     Capital Raising.

                                                      326,000; PPO Membership, 200,000


I   Resurrection Healthcare (IL)                 .~
                                                 c"
                                                 "'
                                                      8 Hospitals (including pending transactions)
                                                      60 Physicians
                                                      HMO- Partial Ownership in Accord
                                                                                                     Relationship since 1994. Investment Banking,
                                                                                                     Capital Raising and Strategic Advisory.

                                                      Health Network

I   Saint Vincent Catholic Medical Centers
    (NY)
                                                      8 Hospitals in New York City                   Relationship with Saint Vincent since 1987 and
                                                                                                     with SVCMC since 2000. Investment Banking,
                                                                                                     Capital Raising, FHA Financing, Strategic and
                                                                                                     Merger Advisory.

I   Trinity Health Corporation (MI)           ''
                                             ·%
                                                      45 Hospitals
                                                      7,740 Physicians
                                                                                                     Relationship since 1985. Investment Banking,
                                                                                                     Capital Raising, Derivatives and strategic
                                                                                                     advisory.


I   UPMC Health System (PA)                  *'
                                             :;g
                                             "
                                                      12 Hospitals
                                                      1,609 Physicians
                                                      HMO- UPMC Health Plan
                                                                                                     Relationship since 1999. Investment Banking and
                                                                                                     Capital Raising.




I   Although each of these clients is unique in its needs and required a customized capital formation strategy, all found
    that an integrated approach created the greatest level of financing success. As explained below, Goldman Sachs is a
    leader and innovator in each of the service areas desired by Presbyterian: capital formation, underwriting;
    remarketing; auction agent/broker-dealer services; derivative product development and execution; strategic advisory
    services; and use of credit enhancement . However, as illustrated in the Trinity Healthcare case study which
    concludes this section, it is through the integration of these areas of expertise into a comprehensive, capital
    management strategy that we are able to provide our clients with the greatest value.
I                   FORMATION STRATEGI
    As indicated above, we take the long view of capital formation. An integrated approach toward capital planning
    incorporates not only the immediate needs of an organization, but its long-term goals, and includes variables such as
    the optimal cost of capitat organizational strategic initiatives requiring investment, desired rating category, and asset
    liability management.
    Our Capital Structure Management (CSM) Model is the central tool used in providing this service. The CSM model is
    a proprietary Monte Carlo simulation-based capital struchlring and optimization system developed specifically for
    the complex needs of the firm's largest and most prestigious corporate, tax-exempt and sovereign clients. Goldman
    Sachs also uses the model internally to evaluate debt and investment strategies.
    Our model provides CFOs and Treasurers with a plan for constructing optimal debt and investment portfolios based
    upon their cost/risk objectives and existing constraints. The model can assist Presbyterian in determining the type of
    debt to issue (e.g., maturity, call/put features, fixed versus floating), the exposure of Presbyterian's overall liabilities
    to movements in interest rates, the impact of derivative securities such as swaps, as well as optimal refunding
    strategies for existing debt issues. It has the capability to evaluate Presbyterian's investment exposures vis-a-vis the
    debt portfolio and help devise strategies to manage this risk and can incorporate pension liabilities into the overall
    liability portfolio and assess the impact of the liability on risk management.
    We use this analytical tool for only a select group of clients whose organization and finances are complex and lend

                                                                                                                                                               2
 